another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . unlike in east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , an complexity that defies analytical consensus . do the region ’s crises stem from the absence of a peace agreement with israel ? the middle east will remain the central pillar of the world ’s energy for decades to come . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can lessen that region ’s importance .
china shares russia ’s concerns over america ’s conventional and missile-defense supremacy , as well as growing and modernizing its estimated 240-arms stockpile . with china taking that course , india – outside the npt , but with some 100 weapons of its own – feeling the need to add to its own global arsenal . with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it proves impossible to persuade any of the other nuclear-armed states to cut their own ( far smaller ) arsenals until the big two make further drastic cuts to theirs . and pakistan then becomes even more determined to try to stick by india . the logic of this deterrence logic generates a snowball effect .
two centuries later , that was no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution spread was , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above a neo-malthusian subsistence benchmark . they did , despite a tripling of the population , placing extraordinary malthusian pressures on the economy ’s underlying natural-resource base , and , despite the mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for almost a century of intensive warfare against france , a superpower with three times britain ’s own population . in fact , what were the small differences that turned out to matter ? the early-industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred , despite the loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent and profligate aristocracy . yet , how , exactly , did these accomplishments appear to have occurred ?
may , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already made the institutional skeleton of a political strategy . the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis that must be managed , not an existential implosion london-centric british paper imagine . may , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) playbook , has already made the institutional skeleton of a politically motivated strategy . another new eu department , the so-called brexit ministry , will run out of political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . her government has formed the department of international commerce to be responsible for devising trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission previously handled such arrangements ) .
venezuela has tried to fund itself with input from the china development bank , which fails to impose the type of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . instead , the cdb lends clandestine terms highly , inadequately regarded and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . in doing so , the chinese have not demanded that venezuela do anything to increase the likelihood that it will regains creditworthiness . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment . in fact , they simply demand more oil as collateral .
with lugar ’s defeat , together with the simultaneous exit by last republican moderates , such as senator olympia snowe of maine , poised to insert national interests ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to produce the more than 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia treaties to be negotiated . one tv advertisement declared all that it was in fact about the low level of rent cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign . it featured two clicps to say that “ i have been working with republican senator , dick lugar , to pass laws , ” and what i was derived from senator dick lugar . the context was not explained , but what obama said in full was this : “ i have been working with then-republican senator dick lugar to pass laws securing and destroying some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded weapons , ” the ” ” ” and , indeed , with “ what i came out with then-senator dick lugar , a republican to help lock down loose nuclear weapons . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty – designed to replace a fragile international moratorium – can not come in motion without american senate ratification .
the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , always feared a betrayal . at the same time , security states tend to forget about treason . insecure states are quicker to feel acts of betrayal , and more to the point of view them as an act of treason . maybe they will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but its betrayal generates little resentment . they have called their crime izmena rodine - a betrayal of the motherland - and married this high moral language to petty transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally .
although ect ’s opponents seem to believe that it is causing brain damage , this is more difficult to prove . like the antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs , and tranquility , ect has the immediate organic impact . yet there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs that have similarly been enforced on people – and even exploited by torture prisoners . though ect rarely , if ever , causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage , and has not been shown to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes today . and , whereas few people are now becoming involuntarily and in every subject , consent is sought , a large and growing number get an antipsychotic drug under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s , and host of others whose lives are shortened by treatments with no effort to seek their consent .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore have recently been unable to finalize an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) deal ; they will soon have a second chance of completing what could well be the world ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and ten other pacific rim countries , with a combined annual output of about $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . but , owing to serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights consequences , that is no cause for celebration . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complex question . their economic clout matches their ambitions ; the talks go beyond traditional trade challenges , which account for only five of the 29 proposed chapters in the us , and consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues that will affect many millions of people , not always positively .
the exciting thing about open education is that free access is only the beginning . open education promises to empower children to provide learning materials that are tailored to their personal needs , unlike today ’s “ “ de-worming ” materials , committing ourselves to them in the cape town ’s open education declaration , which was officially released on january 22 . open education promises to transform today ’s textbook production pipeline into a vast dynamic knowledge ecosystem that is in continuous state of creation , deploy , reuse , and improvement . and an open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage societal interactions among students and teachers around the world . late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to achieve a consensus on open education system and approaches , committing ourselves to them in cape town of open education pronouncements , which were officially released on january 22 .
now , what , in his view , are the limits to american engagement ? nearly 70 years ago , when george orwell explored the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and writing tend to be largely the defense of the indefensible . ” in other words , hazy language is necessary to obscure the unsavory realities . under what conditions , in his view , would the american people ’s capabilities be used ? massive violence against civilian populations is inter-governmental , ” ” and ethnic cleansing makes population shift .
brussels – to many people outside the west , china seems to have gone from a country that has kept a cool head and kept a low profile , ” ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . nor is it reassuring to remember that , up to now , china has stubbornly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in its major offensive military systems , and pillorying western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . putting an australian mining executive behind bars over bars over bars over support for ten years , squeezing google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and giving a mid-level official wag his finger-pointing at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not , after all , the best way to persuade partners of your constructive intentions . yet the point in reciting that litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it illustrates a dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a normal ” power , the world forgoes to forget the many hundreds of hundreds of millions of them that it still needs to pull out of poverty . the chinese leadership seems to recognize this dilemma , and is not really eager to be dragged into fierce competition with either the west or its neighbors .
the international situation at the time was no less threatening one than it is today . yet we have succeeded in ameliorating it , not only normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . if this continues , europe will lose leverage in world affairs , and gradually become irrelevant . fortunately , the 1980s ’s experience suggests a way forward . fortunately , the 1980s ’s experience suggests a way forward .
and , once those firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new us economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive measures that prevent the actual and potential rivals from overturning their positions . these factors are helping to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms owned by the robots ( capital ) and to workers in which robots are replaced ( labor ) . but confronting it will require the us to reinvent antitrust for the digital age . and , as the economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence summers , christina patterson , and john van reenen show , american industries with the fastest-growing of market concentration have also seen the most drop in labor ’s share of income . this augmented market concentration is widening the gap between firms owned by robots ( capital ) and workers whom robots use ( labor ) .
just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by his political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was the markets , not european union leaders , that opened the door to european fiscal and political union . and whom are we to thank for all of this european progress in the past , too ? does we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s political leaders , special that of “ merkozy ” an odd pair of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? that is not : progress resulted almost entirely from much-maligned financial markets . unfortunately not : progress resulted almost exclusively from much-maligned financial markets .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the american dollar , the resulting impact on american manufacturing industries could cause the american economy to slow , undermining its import demand , thereby harming the word of exporters . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide during january 2016 thus illustrate the worldwide nature of the problem that the us faces . forecasts for america ’s economic-growth rate have been revised sharply since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . after all , demand remains depressed by the pre-crisis overhang . true , this pre-2008 debt did not go away ; it simply was moving among sectors and countries .
paris – us president donald trump has rattled a transatlantic alliance , which had long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato an obsolete ” , and the european union a “ “ “ “ vehicle ” for germany . ” the eu will soon crumble , he anticipated , with a succession of consequential countries following the united kingdom . with trump , the world has become accustomed to shocking pronouncements and shameless reversals . the united states , its position suggests , would be more than benign .
indeed , russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and the natural-resource base to become a global competitor within a broad spectrum of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for mining and hydrocarbon assets . all of these industries will benefit from the potential of vast demand growth for high markets , like china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term growth led by high-tech industries does require a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including by openness to foreign players . moreover , the social and political environment must add to a high-tech labor force , providing an attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and promoting entrepreneurship and creativity . those that survived have only barely kept up , with vastly diminished output going mainly to ex-soviet markets .
yet , in an environment of persistently low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( meaning that there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to free fiscal constraints for investment . in reality , the right type of public investment would most likely spur stronger private-sector investment . to be sure , the situation is not cut and dried up . a return to public investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms that vary from country to country . and there is some potential for abuses , with expenditures misclassified as investment .
argentina ’s then-president cristina fernández de kirchner is being attacked for mismanaging the economy and for america ’s banking interest in forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s creditors , not because she is a woman . outside the united states , women have already reached the upper echelons of power . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , having won three universal elections , is respected or resented for her austerity policies , not her gender . the central issue in such tv programs is not that mainstream women play a role here . singapore ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is under attack for mismanaging the economy and for america ’s banking interests for forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s creditors , not because she is a woman .
with unemployment now at 7.6 % and has been falling only slowly , the fed might not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until may 2015 . still , there are caveats that make that forward guidance ambiguous . to be sure , bernanke stressed that the two policies were on separate tracks and would respond to different indices of the us economy ’s performance . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , run by fed governors and regional federal reserve banks ’ presidents , has agreed that the us federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level , until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % , and may be expected to remain there or fall even further . the fed warns that it might raise the federal funds rate should the fed forecast to raise the federal funds rate if the predicted that annual inflation would rise from its current level of just under 2 % to its rate of just over 2.5 % .
russia , prokhorov concludes , is a “ feudal society , ” with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that afflicts many oil-exporting countries . in fact , two million highly educated professionals have emigrated from russia recently . during the past two decades of communism , social inequality has been growing voter turnout . and , with housing , health care , and education less accessible now than at the end of the 1980s , his political program is focused on what needs to be done to enhance russia ’s human capital – a key issue holding back russia ’s economy . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is just 6-10 % of that in the us , which aims for the economy struggles , even as oil prices have its main export earnings peaking .
what matters is that the united states ( ideally joined by other countries ) let iran know that any action to place itself in a position to field nuclear weapons after 15 years , if not explicitly precluded by the accord , would not tolerate . harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakout ; this , too , has not been precluded by the npt . the world has erred in allowing north korea to pass the nuclear-weapons threshold ; once it appears to be attempting the same mistake once again . iran should likewise be briefed that the us and its allies would commit to a preemptive military strike should it emerge to lead the world with an acfait accompli . meanwhile , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s fears about its neighbors , several of which are tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s potential breakaway movements in 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear program .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge a underlying currency . longer-term trends in how money is being used internationally – particularly as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling . for starters , the us dollar has been shooting up since the election due only because trump has been promising to enact deep tax cuts and on-site spending cuts on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly depleted ” military . that will boost near-term economic growth , again pushing up interest rates further . in the face of the coming years , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s current election will almost surely make a bad thing for greece .
but this happy outlook for may rests on one crucial premise : the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . throughout her political careers , may has used a procrastination as a victory strategy . as home secretary , she has often won battles against other ministers simply by refusing to express her views , or even appearing at meetings until day after the final decisions have had to be made . european leaders could easily neutralize may ’s threat of no-deal brexit and thereby remove any need to offer the concessions she demands . to make that happen , they must comprehend the method behind may ’s victor ’s strategy of indecision and delay .
and it ranks 58th for its institutional quality , owing to overregulation of state laws , opaque corporate governance , and political instability . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to the escalating north korean nuclear threat . in recent months , north korea has fired several intercontinental ballistic missiles and has conducted its own nuclear test , has spurring an exchange of incendiary rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump . finally , service productivity amounts to just 45 % of that in the us , on average , compared with the oecd average of 90 % . the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services .
the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , from slavery in the u.s. , shows that as liberal democratic ideals take root in a community , privileges for citizenship can not be denied to the colonial subjects of members or specific groups . second , continued imperialism in the far abroad and in chechnya reinforces the reactionary forces who oppose liberal democracy . it is not sustainable for the peoples of smolensk oblast to live below a constitutional democracy , whereas citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the victims of wanton shelling and destruction . consequently , if russia continues along its imperialist lines , its democracy is at risk . the geopolitical and military elements that lament the demise of the former soviet state feeding upon resources devoted to expansion of russian influence in non-russian republics .
at the hiroshima museum itself , the victims ’ role has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . whether we identify with heroes or victims with staff pilots who stage a stop at wwii , or toward a largely passive population subjected to the infertile of atomic annihilation , we are always rooting with the “ innocents '' and the “ good guys who are still rooting out . ” each chooses the point of view that fits him best . at the imperial japanese perspective , an account of victimization was found , '' '' '' in which `` atomic bombs became a symbol of a specific type of suffering -- rather like the holocaust for jews . neither the japanese government ’s responsibilities to initiating and the continuing war nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war or those subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule are adequately recognized .
accountability mechanisms should be established , enabling victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . the intended recipients of such actions should be defined as rights-holders . instead of having failed because they have unsatisfied needs , remedies are issued , because their rights are violated . the framework also should include non-discrimination missions , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups , not only high-minded , shia literate , and regime favorites , rather than only the groups for which there is a quick airation . this removes the stigma of charity by empowering victims .
the chinese are doing this in two ways . first , us firms that wish to do business in china are obliged to have a chinese partner and to share their technology with that firm . the most important issue that needs to be done is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese theft american firms ’ technologies , and use it to help chinese firms compete with those same firms in china and around the world . that compulsory sharing of technology sets an important reality for the world trade organization rules .
this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . but the struggle within islam is not a satisfactory or sufficient explanation for the state of anarchy that we are seeing in a place like south sudan , whose 11 million people have gained their independence just three years ago . though the world ’s newest country has emerged from a bitter civil war between christians and muslim muslims , the independence referendum received 99 % of its support . it is ripping countries and regions apart , linke people to travel halfway around the world in order to join jihad , and threatens to unleash more violence against muslims just as against christians , jews , and elsewhere . yet , today , 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted , having nothing to do with islam , and everything to do with struggle along their ethnic lines to control the country ’s resources .
in the united states , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former us president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , began out as an program in which the us treasury department bought problematic , largely mortgage-based assets directly from us financial institutions . but that turned out to be more complicated than originally thought , and in just a few weeks later , the us government simply recapitalized us banks in the eu . other bad decisions were not so easily reversed . hoping for a bank run , the iranian government offered a blanket guarantee of all us banking deposits . with that one unilateral decision , ireland destabilized the rest of europe .
on one hand , there is the need for increased social-media literacy to a portion of consumers who must be taught , from a young age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other hand , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models that facilitate , and even reward , hate speech . on the other hand , it calls for a fundamental rethink of business models that facilitate , and even reward , hate speech . hate speech and other forms of dangerous and illegal content must be attacked at the very source . hate speech and other types of dangerous and illegal content must be attacked at the source .
independently of what we think of britain ’s exit from the eu can be asked two different questions , one general and one specific to brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy be capable of making such decisions directly , in a referendum rather than through its elected representatives ? on the broader question , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the idea of democracy itself , subject only to feasibility constraints . in earlier times , small city-states could be direct democracies ; but , in larger countries where communication was slow , representatives should be elected to decide the many questions required to be debated and voted out . and , more precisely , should british legislators really be held accountable by the result of the june 23 referendum ?
a big coalition of technology companies and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to us president barack obama ’s administration arguing against a back-door call . the american government would not object , given its own policies . they regard the application of backdoors in the same way that the automobile manufacturers would view a petition requiring a defective engine . beyond “ undermining every american public safety and the nation with economic safety , ” signers argued , “ introducing new vulnerabilities to weaken encrypted products in the american us would also undermine human rights and information safety worldwide . ” what encryption recognize is that if american companies maintain the ability to unlock their customers ’ data and devices upon requests , governments other than the united states will demand the same level of access , thereby galvanizing demands for the same capability from their native companies .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . kuala lumpur – malaysia 's congress , led by premier mahathir mohamad – was suddenly finding itself with itself mired in a political scandal following an online circulation of sex videos involving the cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice the result of the imprisonment of people acting as justice party leader anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those preceding it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems .
at a time of much hand-wringing over the decline of western-style liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . in fact , macron has taken a leap to the west ’s unknowable , new politics , ” ” terrain no longer defined entirely by competition between large center-right and center-left parties . macron has also signaled to pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament election . like a democrat , he believes that the european union ’s deepening process must go hand in hand with developing a genuinely european political space . but is politics really lurching the page toward a traditional left-right cleavage ?
london – most pundits agree that the least wrong way to come to grips with north korea ’s nuclear-saber rattling is a constant combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer , on the other hand , have come to recognize that the least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s administration ’s vow to assume responsibility for its own dangerous neighbor – constitutes chinese incursions , or regime change forced through china ’s ’s ’s threat to launch one . that outcome , which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in favor of china , is not nearly as unlikely as most people realize . indeed , its very plausibility is one reason why it needs some serious political effort to be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners . in trumpian terms , this is a “ “ “ china first ” option , which might have helped to turn china great again .
spiekermann , the global authority on trafficking of us online identities for purposes related to targeted ads , political propaganda , public and private scrutiny , or other nefarious purposes , stresses the need to crack down on “ face-to-face data markets . ” “ the ever since the world economic forum began its debate on personal data as a new asset class in may 2011 , ” she has been telling me , “ data-based markets have thrived on the idea that personal data may be the “ ‘ new oil ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ business practices like – so it appears to be – a decade of us politics . nor is it just “ facebook and google , ” apple , or amazon , a apple or amazon that harvests and use our data for whatever purpose one might think of , ” ” ” ” spiekermann says . “data-management platforms ’ like those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles some hundreds of millions of our users . as a result , “ over 1,000 firms now engage in a digital information value chain distributing data from any online business and delivering targeted content to online or cellular users in roughly 36 seconds in their entry to the digital realm .
in india , for example , poverty has decreased more slowly in areas where farmers have faced increased foreign competition . as a result , increased trade can claim difficult adjustments in the short term . but boosting trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and lower agricultural prices – outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . it gives poor access to a wider variety of commodities , while providing firms with more diversified chosen inputs . given the constraints of inter-sectoral labor mobility , stemming from barriers to skills acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few opportunities when such changes occur .
for kenya , a nation ’s very public decline has come at a heavy cost . but it has also proven that press freedom means a lot more than letting journalists say what they want , when they want , and by whom they want . it also means holding media owners accountable . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions might benefit most from such a mirror , those who have historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to put it aside . in fact , kenyans need similar means of reflection today .
the 2001 recession combined an inventory downturn with an investment-led slump . the first is over now ; the second -- result of overinvestment in high technology and telecommunications , the sectors so important in the late 1970s -- may last well . there remains a significant capacity overhang -- such as fiber optic lines -- that remain dark , having yet to see any light pass through them . the good news -- and miserly -- is that the pace of technological change in those sectors is fast becoming obsolete before wearing it , or even so it used to enable new investment to start faster than it otherwise could be . it is simply lowering interest rates did not and will not , leading firms to invest more in these sectors . there remains a considerable capacity overhang -- for example , fiber optic lines remain dark -- so far , having seen any light pass through them .
once the bureaucracy and broad parameters for action are established by early next year , may formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . by that point , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rat in denmark , will then have to come up with an overdraft . that , at least , is the formal plan . two years of negotiation ( longer when the eu agrees ) are likely to follow .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the arab spring of 1968 was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . these are just a few of the difference between west and east european students in that springtime of revolt of forty years ago . in warsaw , too , students went into protest , but their cause was not the same as that of their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to cry out for ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in polish solidarity , but rather to defend their own countries ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . rather than chanting ho ’s name , young poles put flowers below the monument of adam mickiewicz , the nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , wrote in praise of polish struggles for freedom , recently dismissed subversive and anti-soviet performance at a national theater in warsaw closed down .
crucially , the figures are comparable across a large set of middle - and low-income countries , as well as those available for the advanced countries . start , lustig argues in a recent paper , with trump ’s failure to keep world income inequality up . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality , which runs from zero to perfect equality per 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all of that income ) . the average gini score ( as opposed to population ) in the countries for which data are paid slightly in the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 . the preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies illuminate political debates , as well as the likely exasperation ideologues of both the left and the far left .
as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent growth at around 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocations , and structural vulnerability . indeed , with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity there is critical to china ’s own long-run prosperity . likewise , while policies that encourage firms to boost wages will drive up household incomes and domestic consumption , wage increases may erode export competitiveness , choking off inflows of foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . the last piece of the puzzle for china is realism .
throughout history , despots used the same tactics . but orbán is doing so in the eu in 2017 . it is worth recalling that in order to join the eu , hungary had to comply with stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . and , by closing such a prominent us-backed institution , he has been free to send a message that nobody who stood up to him won . taking advantage of those high standards is now being systematically eroded , introducing a paradox for the eu .
this is one reason why i am hopeful that something really significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . question : are you thinking that the current economic crisis is perhaps the final step in a generally western-dominated philosophical crisis ? soros : having discussed this in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism , i was discussion of this . soros : the ecb is a functioning institution , after all . so long as it acts within its powers , germany has no standing to veto it .
indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of productivity growth has soared by a factor of four . in addition , it is not as though a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or raise poverty . indeed , social mobility in france has experienced no major change since 1991 . by moving away from a system of state-level universal eligibility to one that finds the more appropriate fit fit for all pre-high school students , france has stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . in france , macron ’s revolution is on the move , too .
aside from individual firms , entire value chains that contribute heavily to a country ’s gdp have suffered a sudden operational and financial freeze . but , while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by subjecting corruption and punishing offenders . reforming relationships between brazil ’s public and private sectors may improve the country ’s majority long-term economic performance . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being captured and punished , whatever their social status may have . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have the greater probability of being captured and punished , whatever their social status may have .
even in the new eu member states , enthusiasm for europe 's family of democracies is cooling . they have trouble seeing what is common to europe as a whole . indeed , many are turning their backs on an entire project , something to do . they have trouble seeing what , exactly , is common to europeans . even in the new eu member states , enthusiasm for europe 's families is cooling .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who has lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( presumably about lifting sanctions imposed by president barack obama on russian businesses ) . another prominent escapee out of the special counsel is trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house role , particularly in foreign policy ( in which he ’d no experience ) , to attend to his own family ’s need to get out of massive real-estate debt . trump himself remains vulnerable to the investigations initiated by , if turned off to , say , federal and state-run prosecutors outside washington , dc . moreover , us president-elect donald trump , jr. , together with another top campaign official , had met in trump tower , along with a russian intelligence agent with ties to the kremlin , which had just promised “ dirt ” on clinton . it was widely expected that trump ’s son would face impeachment , like that of even donald trump , had said so , but barr ’s announcement ruled out further prosecution .
the american can not stop the spiral of violence across the middle east . pundits maintain that arabs can not manage democracy alone . in fact , america and its allies simply do not like the results of an arab democracy that all too often generates nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . backroom dealings and violence continue to dominate the day , with the us taking the lead . in this way , the american people simply ignores the current election results ( as it did , for example , in 2006 , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) .
cambridge : after wasting a decade , the world is angering itself against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , mainly in africa and southeast asia . some 19 million more people are living with an hiv virus that is causing aids ; virtually all are mark for premature death . in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of adults are afflicted . the pandemic has claimed 19 million lives and created some 13 million orphans . while first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million people worldwide suffer ; another million more in asia .
in most cases , skies ’ laws mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . fragile treaties covering this are enforced mostly by the fact that few nations can afford to place assets that high . as a result , the sky is usually conceptualized in traffic terms . airliners and warplanes function in “ controlled ” aerial near areas , while nationality is supposed to matter less the higher you get . in most cases , skies ’ laws mirror those governing the world ’s oceans .
and our current era is not really a fourth industrial revolution ; it is the start of the digital age , and the end of the industrial age altogether . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors are already exploiting . in fact , few other trends pose an even bigger threat to global stability . almost all societies have become highly dependent online , the world ’s most prominent infrastructure – and also the infrastructure upon which every other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of everything . ”
in china , most of the soes have survived because central planners emphasized economic autarky , regardless of cost . wto membership will also induce the government to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against highly subsidized , private-owned economic sectors , including agriculture . likewise , china ’s industrialization strategy under the pre-reform era dismissed the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and climate . jamaica , say , is not producing frozen salmon or hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus and tourism provides far more of the gains . likewise , wto membership will push the government to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against highly private-sector ownership , including for agriculture .
still , the mainstream political parties that have governed italy until this year have failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . as a result , italians have elected an unconventional coalition whose agenda combines the policies of the populist left with those of the populist right . there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework has been decoupled from weak nominal gdp growth , perhaps too-low inflation and high debt . as a result , italians have elected an unconventional coalition , whose agenda combines policies with those of the populist right . yet , even before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit – unlike its underlying debt position – was often rather restrained in comparison to the rest of europe , as did the other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , italy , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) .
to that , governments must put in place both the carrot and the stick . encouraging foreign investment , or liberalizing everything , and then waiting to do so , does not make it work . a carrot is needed , because there is great social value in discovering , for example , cutting flower bunkers or soccer balls – or computer software – can be produced at low cost , because this knowledge may orient investment by other entrepreneurs . learning what a country is ( or can be ) well at producing is a crucial future challenge to economic development . an effective strategy must satisfy two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional areas and leveling off projects and failing investment .
the effect of the us dollar ’s decline over the coming decades could be just equally important . if the us trade deficit reduction of 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied increase in us exports and a decline in imports would reduce the output available for american consumption and investment by roughly 0.3 % per year . combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the cyclical rebound effect , an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real gdp – an average annual rate of 2.6 % – would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , substantially larger than the 1.9 % pace of the end of 2009 . but not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain in the u.s. . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by around 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of that dollar decline reflects us import prices , the increased cost of us imports would reduce america ’s real incomes by around 0.4 % per year .
under a court order , argentina might not be able to pay holders of new bonds unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution could serve as an intermediary to make payments to argentina . holdouts argued that if new bonds were to be repudiated in full ( as they were ) , the equal treatment required that holdouts should receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) . america ’s second merger court of appeals ruled that argentina was obliged to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders on the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of foreign-exchange bonds . it was this that ruling that the high court recently sacked the supreme court . as a result , argentina was bound to pay holdouts , in full or default on new bonds .
zhou bo , an honorary fellow with the pla academy of military sciences , admits that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ powerful yet benign ” power . to be sure , india is somewhat suspicious of china ’s behavior at this point . but , for china , it is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its aims , unspooking its intended quarry . now , china has embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to construct a sprawling complex roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo , the “ port city ” that would become a major halt in china ’s nautical drive . this matters , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise , than by events in the indian ocean region , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance .
likewise , the modi government has adopted upa-proposed goods and services tax , which has been stalled by opposition from the bjp-ruled asian countries ( including modi ’s gujarat ) . and it will strengthen the national anti-terrorist effort that modi had earlier denounced as an assault on indian federalism . many modi ’s supporters in the media have already begun to de-monopolize the series of policy abdications that modi has waged since his campaign . yet sharif was an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . indian citizens who thought they had voted for change are becoming surprised if the bjp had simply reprised a upa ’s government .
a regional agenda must be created to help identify priorities , from a three-pronged strategy comprising energy and water policies , arms control , and reduction of debt . with today ’s emphasis on military action in the us-led war on terror , ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military matters , combined with the stability charter established , has become urgent . in all conflicts , human rights are among the earliest casualties , and in the middle east ’s degradation of human dignity has now ill-judged international conventions agreed over a number of generations . we should look to the helsinki process to show us how to retrieve what was lost . europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been made great .
for example , when the imf rightly suggested , after argentina ’s crises , that something needed was a better method of debt restructuring ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , the american people vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed agreement to limit bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . who , after all , could conceivably have anticipated that bill clinton followed the american president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestations ? they did what they could have to insure that no meaningful reforms had appeared during the crisis , with the knowledge that post-crisis governments momentum for reform would dissipate . they were more right to some extent than they knew at the time .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents congregated in victoria park , to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to chile more than it was 20 years ago . yet , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s governance . as the south china sea morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only massive public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , authorized on chinese soil . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s show has reflected growing frustration , led not only by china ’s own leaders , but also by their own .
in order to select goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not just to solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices . leaders must get the question right , before designing answers . and , to become sustainable , a successful vision also needs to be an effective diagnosis of what every group faces . what plays well with one group may not sit well with another . they must be in a position to evaluate reality accurately .
sixth , sanctions are said to have undermined targeted governments . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . but , by deteriorating business and investment climate , economic sanctions take their toll primarily on the private sector . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control the supplies of strategic commodities , owing to the shortages that they cause . sixth , sanctions are said to have undermined targeted governments .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , although highly interesting reference point for the analysts of arab revolutions is not the appropriate point of reference , because the region ’s ’s new domestic and foreign order resulted from the turn of changes in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all these countries had a clear vision of what they wanted to be : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and the protection of the russian empire ’s return . nothing of the sort applies to the middle east ’s crisis zones . they wanted to the west and , indeed , their accession to nato and the european union had their logical happened . no power anywhere , within or outside the region , is willing and able to implement the barest vision of a new regional order – or even a vision for parts of it .
new haven – by now , it ’s an all-too-familiar drill . following an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has begun the long march back toward normalization . after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has begun the long march back toward normalization . it has now taken the first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate – to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint to the american economy . most major financial market players , for their part , applaud this strategy .
furthermore , the buildup of risk within a financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a few years ( indeed , for example , after a governor ’s term in office has expired ) . indeed , the danger for central banks has stemmed from a lack of measurement of the implicit subsidies dispensed by major financial institutions is not measured in any single budget . de gregorio ’s view differs from that of many of his colleagues in other countries because he sees clearly the risks in letting banks become larger and applicable what it calls a shrewd ” strategy that requires ample leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least for fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees must be honored . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower debt levels , vulnerability to shocks decreases .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny of what russian president vladimir putin is up to syria , and why . a considerable part of this analysis , though narrowly focused on the short term , may prove to be overly negative in assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences . what we do know is that putin has chosen to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russia ’s bomb and cruise missiles are now rashing out on a array of armed groups doing to combat syrian government forces that have given the regime the breathing space that russian ’s interventions were designed to provide . as badly as the assad government is , and just as it has had to answer for it , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to a regime collapse .
using data for the 2017 election , we discover that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing cases lodged by all wto member countries against the exporting nations ( a log value of which sits on the vertical axis of graph below ) tends to decline as the income level of the exporter increases ( revealed by a log in value onto the horizontal axis ) . this might be because the richer nations observe rules better , they are less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise , or some combination of the two . alternatively , the data pattern is fairly clear-cut : as a country becomes richer , there are fewer anti-subsidization or anti-dumping cases against it . each blue dot on his graph represents the wto member economies , and the firm black row demonstrates the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . that may be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trade framework .
most bets are on britain formally abandoning the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” left in the customs union , giving it just two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft brexit ” exit , but they will most likely be sufficient to ensure parliamentary approval . if the brexit trajectory turns out that way , it will be a potent illustration of the dual nature of our ordinary people – and function – of politics . the referendum decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic consequences will be deferred : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology . brexiteers will still be enraged by such a “ soft brexit ” exit , but they will most likely be enough to secure parliamentary approval .
europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians , and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : the former royal afghan castle near frankfurt near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians hosted an annual meeting of dealing with the middle east . early this year was the presence of representatives from post-saddam iraq , among them an official from a kurdish regional government , as well as the supreme leader shi'a deputy . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle eastern road map , was at the center of attention . on an opening night , senior german government minister himself deeply involved in middle eastern affairs , addressed the two subjects , displaying great sensitivities both to israeli and palestinian concerns .
cairo – last friday , cairo has been paralyzed , despite an almost-comprehensive lack of coverage through its local media outlets . and ramadan – now underway – is mobilization-friendly . the final ten days of ramadan are i ‘ ‘ tikaf ’ ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open spaces . after sunset , there is a shared agenda that stands out . observant muslims gather in sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed early childhood prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including brief sermon ) , social language interactions , qiyam ( another late-night prayer ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prague . after sunset , there is a shared program today .
no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without dragging along all segments of its population , and without giving a voice to all . as africa ’s preeminent development-finance institution , the african development bank will come to support our north african members , enhancing their governance and institutions , strengthening social safety nets , and laying the groundwork for a strong economic recovery . as we finance infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will strive to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas . we are broadening our consultations with governments and other actors to interact more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and media outlets , as well as with academics , think tanks , labor unions , and industry and industry associations . with emerging democratic dispensation , we have partners with which to engage one another in governance issues .
while those numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to have in mind , they did away from the shaky foundations of newfound prosperity . the mounting need for actions to correct the global economy ’s imbalances was met with disbelief among influential policymakers and market analysts to advocate for each other : potentially transforming a winning formula ? the fate of the rest of the world has depended on a response to the unfolding financial turmoil . even many of the world ’s poorest countries seemed to be joining , at long last , posting powerful growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and increasing fiscal revenue . the contraction of the property and stock market will , no doubt , dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially unleashed a downward spiral .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming global population , they could become a painful reality of life once again . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and by 2050 , its population is projected to grow to 5 billion – an increase of 900 million people . owing to its expanding middle class , the region is likely to account for about half of the global increase in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three-quarters of the rise in foodstuffs ranging from now to 2030 . and by that point , more than 60 % of total cereal demand in the developing world will come from southern and east asia .
syria is a case in point . the situation there , predicated on every pundit around the us , has metastasized , threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war . but , whether america is engaged or not , a policy needs . what america needs is to explain better to its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east in its mounting problems . this is not to say that america should necessarily get involved on every issue .
with attackers becoming nimble and innovative , arming an increasingly diverse array of weapons , cyber-attacks occur at a faster pace and more sophistication than ever before . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . london – for example , cybersecurity – is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . all , from households to corporations to governments , have a stake in protecting our era ’s greatest precious commodity : data . and yet , the issue is how ai can be managed .
in this way , more portugals and irelands may be formed , as the wealth of now-prosperous regions is sustained . this is not the only way forward , either . viewed from perspective such truths provision , europe ’s eastward enlargement , for example , is deeply desirable , despite , for example , because it may lead to migration from the new member states towards the old . integrating migrants also makes a lot of sense ; although it is desirable to help establish sustainable conditions in troubled countries with an entire generation of emigrants who first transfer resources and then return themselves . many consequences follow from such home truths regarding immigration , not least through more rational debate .
we know that iron deficiency leads to our own cognitive and developmental challenges . fortifying products with iron-cost products as little as $ 0.12 per person or less , a year or more . for the $ 286 million we could get iodized salt and fortified basic food items to 80 % of those in the worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be about nine times that sum . fortifying products with iron-cost products as little as $ 0.12 per person , a year or more . the cost is miniscule : reaching 80 % of the world 's population of 140 million , or so undernourished children , would require a commitment of roughly $ 60 million a year , with economic gains eventually totaling $ 1 billion per year .
many projects , from airports to university campuses , are benefiting from returns over decades , which means that weak demand in the short run will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . standardization and liberalization of european telecoms underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity in that period , respectively , compared to america ’s 6 % growth . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features of data – could become viable with action by policymakers . even if european countries were to close just 10 % of the distortionary capital stock per worker at the subsector , the impact could be larger than € 360 billion ( $ 38 billion ) in additional investment alone – offsetting the € 354 billion gap in private-sector investment from 2007 to 2011 . in fact , the largest scale for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive industries , where the government has a major presence as a regulator .
as a result , the differential between the rate of growth in emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , as well as among hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in this emerging group – has decreased significantly . the question , then , is whether the trend growth differential will remain as low today . indeed , after averaging three percentage points in two decades and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential has dropped to 2.5 last year , and is projected to amount to just 1.5 this year . those who believe that this will , normally rely on three arguments , all of them call for some princess . first , they argue , that much convergence has already taken place in manufacturing .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards introduced a high degree of moral hazard and created perverse incentives for governments and market players alike . making matters worse , an honest focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s actual troubles have gone unaddressed . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections centered around corporations and banks . italy ’s current situation should serve as a warning to all of those advocating risk-sharing . under the most recent eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risk should have given way to the ecb was replaced with a principle of common responsibility , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale in the event of a crisis .
but the year 2004 was also a bitter failing for russian president vladimir putin , who had attempted to sack his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by backing massive vote manipulation . the creation of the new eurasia union had been an essential component of his platform . a hoped-for break with the past did not materialize , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . the failure was a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failures brought yanukovych to power as a free and fair election , and putin , in 2012 , chosen himself for a third presidential term in russia .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 came to seven years of capital flight . the third cycle of inflows occurred in 2004 in 2004 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . are a few data points and biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle seriously ? if history repeats itself , today ’s time is the time for more than a third “ sudden stop ” ” ” capital flows to emerging markets . perhaps , if we have some degree of causal theory , which might explain such periodicity to international capital flows .
they , in turn , would secure votes for the federal government to assume and repay states ’ defaulted debts . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than we are today . a responsible fiscal state had emerged from that grand compromise . despite massive costs – more than half of what the congressional budget office had conducted in early years to debt service – an economy shook away at the 1780 ’s , and entered a growth boom . jefferson and madison did not want the country ’s capital to the “ north , ” and hamilton grudgingly agreed to support it to move it to an area carved out by virginia or maryland .
digital id systems that succeed in driving high levels of adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , firms , and government . digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate significant economic value for individuals , firms , and government . as we paper in a new report , digital ids have the potential to drop scams rates , tri-lowering customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and lending to under-banked customers . they can also spur development , by enabling data-matching digital talent and efficiency-enhancing employee connections , resulting in higher labor-market participation . digital ids could even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems .
the first revolution of 1917 toppled czar nicholas i , who created an interim government that , heading by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , had turned out to be a transition blip . but the second revolution , which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power – produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of treason . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” that played the old order in order to continue sorrow among workers and peasants . if the revolution continues the apace , it disintegration into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurrent cycle of violence . but if the revolution aborted , its leaders unmassed as empty windbags .
this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly of developing the financial system as a whole , without worrying implications for individual institutions in doing so . moreover , such a solution would safeguard the fed ’s crucial independence in its monetary-policy role . below it stands an opportunity to establish a unified banking supervisor , pooling the functions of the comptroller of the currency , the office of thrift supervision , and regulation functions of regional feds . in a perfect world , one would add to us treasury banking regulators , but i recognize that on this point , i have begun to have the trample on the cherished features of the american constitution ! the crisis has proven to be one that we call this plain speaking .
but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers , without stifling competition . in india , for example , there is a fear of being crushed by the tiny cases of mom-and-pop retailers when wal-mart enters market forces in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers , without stifling competition . an artisanal vendors ’ survival should not be used as an excuse to introduce or uphold business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent , least of them . the government may , say , impose zoning regulations , help small retailers find specialized niches in markets , or provide on-the-job training to displaced workers .
toulouse – if history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history defers to a sadistic twist – it also punishes those who learn from it all too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises mirrored the weaknesses of regulatory systems based on lessons learned from previous crises . the postwar system of financial regulation was started on three supposed lessons from the 1930s . today , ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will the next one . first , we assumed that a key reason why banks fail is when depositors panic , not that a key reason depositors panic is a risk to banks .
for china , the biggest prize is the bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . such an agreement would be the near-term boon to xi , because doing so would represent an american vote of confidence in china ’s struggling economy . but the outlook for an entire us approach is uncertain , at best . the american congress is deeply euroskeptic , and the american business community needs persuasive powers . in practical terms , a us-china trade deal would make it much easier for chinese entities to invest and operate in american firms , and an increase in american firms ’ access to chinese markets .
this is particularly interesting because it fundamentally refutes one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inexpedient truth . in his graphic details , gore demonstrated how a 20-foot rise in sea levels would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the ipcc report makes it clear that the exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in science – although clearly frightened by people , and perhaps will win gore ’s academy awards . the ipcc report makes it plain that the exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in science – although clearly terrifying people , and perhaps also win gore ’s nobel prize-winning academy awards . yet , the report also exposed the trump news that the exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in science – although clearly frightened people , and perhaps also some of them , too – are deemed “ very unlikely . ”
last but not least , an international import expo will complement china ’s other market-oriented measures , including the lower entry barriers faced by foreign financial firms . it is important to note that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus vis-à-vis any particular partner , even as its overall surplus rises . and even if an import expo expands , rather than decreases , a country ’s ’s ’s overall trade surplus may well have some additional benefit . for starters , relaxing the cost of imports will boost chinese households ’ purchasing power and access to goods that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will take advantage of lower costs for foreign-made parts and equipment to bolster their global competitiveness – another channel , through which lower import barriers may end up propping up exports .
throughout the west , many people are being questioning whether russia will maintain its use of natural gas as a means to impose economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgian , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” using the “ energy weapon , ” ” ” however , is not merely a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . russia ’s policy toward post-soviet countries is rooted in its doctrine of the “ liberal empire , ” ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control of key economic actors across the former soviet republics ’ territories by acquiring its assets . in this context , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that an empire of the “ new russian dream ” should construct purely economic means , excluding all forcible actions against other peoples . naturally , a key role for this model is provided by post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress is approaching enacting a major tax reform . i dislike budget deficits , and have long warned of its dangerous consequences . opponents of legislation emphasize the resulting increase in the us federal budget deficit , adding $ 1.5 trillion to the us government debt over the next ten years . yet i believe that the economic benefits from the resulting corporate-tax changes will outweigh the adverse consequences of the increased debt . the ’s most important provision lowers the corporate tax rate , from 35 % to 20 % – from the highest among all oecd countries to one of the lowest in each of the lowest – and allows american companies to repatriate profits to their overseas subsidiaries , without paying additional american taxes .
to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to promote some form of inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s stability-oriented world , other central banks would respond soon by injecting liquidity , prompting the bank of japan ( boj ) to act once again . such actions are typically justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , lower-grade currency war . we need a cluster of major economies now – call it “ g big ” – that announcements about monetary policies in a competitive-bidding fashion .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend of a recent study . their starting point is the observation that , over the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth has averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , versus an average of just 2.5 % under republican control . the difference in economic performance under both democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with disparities clearly above the threshold for statistical significance . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the discrepancy is even larger . their results are similar , even if one traces responsibility for the first three months – or the first few quarters – of a us presidential term back to its predecessor .
terms in office have expired for the prosecutor-general , members of the national electoral commission , and supreme court injustices , but no successors have been named , because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition , and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to nominate officials chosen . indeed , one of india ’s key opposition leaders , leon lópez obrador , has been arrested on ludicrous charges of fomenting criminality . it would have been reverential to tell ukrainian protesters facing government storm troopers to just rosneft and bear it , with no external solidarity or support . it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same thing . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be the ones who are deciding their own destiny , but the democratic means to do so are being denigrated .
true , the far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump . yet , in the face of widespread economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes just the point at issue . classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism , to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national side . yet history suggests that the nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . true , the far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump .
london – “ “ what could that be ‘ as good ’ ? ” jack nicholson asks , as he stumbles through his psychiatrist waiting room at an eponymous film . many are now wondering whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it will receive for a very long time . determining the validity of such fears requires understanding what drives china ’s economic slowdown . jack nicholson asks , as he walks through his psychiatrist waiting room at an eponymous film . at a recent g-20 finance ministers ' meeting in shanghai , participants interviewed a lot of the same question – and not only about medium-term expectations of weak global growth .
at the same time , the internet has disseminates the templates of what genuine democracy has looked like , preemptively , and worldwide . not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that suggest that they have relatively little interests in being cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , collective , or even religious identities . overwhelmingly , they desire simple democracy and economic self-determination . that agenda is in direct conflict with the interests of the global capital and of governments , which have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . it is conflicts that can be anticipated to heighten attention dramatically in 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupying moscow – gain further consistency .
but three of the european union ’s four largest economies – france , italy , and the united kingdom – all have large debts and annual deficits that point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . businesses now worry that rising deficits will lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . when interest rates rise , as surely they must , the costs of servicing the debt will demand higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and undermining economic activity . that is a worrying prospect for everyone .
the economy ’s fastest growing sectors since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely classified as “ “ service industries , ” often include the proliferation of information and amusement – activities in which jews were particularly prominent , from publishing to vaudeville , and from movies to commercial sports . they have pioneered new retail institutions , ranging from networks to box stores . they have also tended to do disproportionately in now-learned professions , such as medicine , law , and accountants – all of which are so central to a modern capitalist society . still , not all minority minorities long subject to discrimination necessarily succeed under conditions of market-based competition . after all , the fact that jews were long a small minority through discrimination was sometimes given as a reason for their propensity to dedicate themselves to commerce , finance , and occupations .
crowding in private capital will therefore prove key to closing the investment gap . to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework , developed by the one planet lab of working groups working on financing the sustainable infrastructure of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . the framework , called the “ vision for an environmentally responsible transition process ” of infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) , aims to help unlock project pipelines and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door for large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide . vert-infra initially covers the four subsectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , storage , transportation , and buildings , with special emphasis on projects in urban areas . up to now , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) .
in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb – and plenty of new dynamite is being accumulated across the entire region . without support from , say , china and india , american policy of the middle east can no longer succeed ; but that aid is granted only half-heartedly – if at all . today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and in sharp contrast to brazil in 2001 ) , america appears crucially weakened . moreover , new superpowers with their own interests – namely , that of china and india – have come up on the international scene . a success for american policy in the region holds extremely limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europeans are neither willing nor able to contribute substantial support .
creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technological ) sweeping the world . skeptics hold that competition and technology wreak havoc on society ’s harmony ; that it creates inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , it provides the chance of energetic people being formerly on the sidelines . but this is no longer the american story , once again , that is not the whole story ; it is not . creative destruction ( intensified by economic openness and technology ) sweeping the world .
the next step in the reevaluation of cancer screening took place just last year , when researchers at the dartmouth institute for health policy announced that the cost of breast-cancer screening was often minimized , and that the benefits had been far exaggerated . indeed , even a mammograms ( almost 40 million of them women ) annually , that detects a cancer did not necessarily save a life . dartmouth researchers found that out , of an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected an annual study conducted in america , that test did n’t help an 120,000-134,000 of those afflicted women . the cancers either had grown so slowly that they posed no problem , or would have been successfully treated had clinically been later ( or are sufficiently aggressive enough that little could be done ) . chest x-rays for lung cancer , and pap tests for cervical cancer received similar , albeit less last , criticism .
a new study argues that there is now just one 70 % chance that the world ’s population can not peak this century ’s end , giving the 80 % chance that it could reach the world ’s 9.6-12.3 billion people by 2100 . this matters , because a rising population can be an even larger problem than previously thought . sub-saharan africa – persistently the poorest region – will be the main engine of continued demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this engine : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for an estimated 215 million women worldwide – a substantial fraction of them in africa , who want to avoid a pregnancy – costs roughly $ 3.6 trillion per year .
contrary to mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . the root problem in iraq today is not the jobs . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . state-owned enterprises were supposed to be free to offer an offer as well , but they should receive no favors . this is a struggle of power , not of economic justice or better lives .
this was true even during the cold war and remains true today , though mccain does not seem to recognize it . on russia since its georgian invasion , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of congress to visit georgian after the invasion ) emphasize helping georgian rebuilding its economy and preserving its independence in the face of a persistent russian campaign against it . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia through actions like expelling it from the g-8 . that was true even during the cold war and remains true today , yet mccain does not seem to recognize it . moreover , even after outrage at georgian law , there are questions about shared interest , such as energy , climate change , and iran on which the west and the kremlin must cooperate .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
the central authority is gradually eroding as the country continues into a splinter into ethnic and sectarian regions with the de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . meanwhile , in yemen , the possibility of an adequate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts multiple seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and bankrupt economy . the south ( aden ) and the east ( shi’aut ) have both been on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification . in libya , col. muammar el-qaddafi ’s collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has plunged the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority . the south ( aden ) and the east ruled the regional council ; only the west remains the subject of the ill-consolidated government of tripoli .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had the responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks , stimulating economic growth . in europe , in particular , governments were lambasted for having legacy debts even when private debt , not public borrowing , precipitated the collapse . this turned out to be a grave mistake , at least for now . but that consensus turned out to be short-lived and early public-sector interventions came to be viewed as the root cause of the crisis , and thus needed to reverse it . many were instructed to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies .
we must fight exclusion from our national political parties , just as we struggle exclusion from our societies . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide and the knowledge they need to decide well . likewise , a socialist international goal is a world governed not by free markets , but by free people . that means welcoming migrants and minority minorities , creating more opportunities for women and the disabilities of the world , and making empowering citizens through education and participation . at the same time , formed in pasok , the greek socialist party , which i lead , we are enacting far-reaching reforms in that direction .
moreover , unlike in europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . the us banking and household sectors have all made some headway in deleveraging . us shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage in manufacturing in general , and in petrochemicals in particular . true , europe could destroy the eu altogether .
this divided attitude meant that china had tended to overreact in ways as contradictory as it was impassioned and unpredictable , especially as its pride was piqued . even as the chinese felt incensed at foreign interference and domination , many also came to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to help . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the humiliating prospect of smelling china victimized by foreign disdation . still , by wikileaks ’ ba’ath70s , when i went to china during the cultural revolution , scarcely a country ’s public surface played such a motto : “ down with american imperialism and its freefall running dogs . ” nothing was provoked by a more muscular response after mao came to power , than by the humiliating prospect of feeling unable to resist foreign predation .
third , we face steeply rising fossil-fuel prices , as developing countries ’ growth drives up demand and conventional supplies for coal , oil , and gas are depleted . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is plenty of hype – similar to gold rushes and stock-market bubbles in the past . and , indeed , they are environmentally flast to inboot . while shale-gas wells deplete a long period of fast growth than conventional fields do , this can be done . undoubtedly , we can find more fossil-fuel reserves , but at a much higher cost and greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damage .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is a little more than a month away ; yet already , the campaign appears to have been with the us on a perpetual state , rolling implacably forward , but with little evidence of any genuine excitement – or even considerable – movement at the polls . labour , meanwhile , seems to hope for a who-knows-what to turn the tide while keeping its collective fingers crossed that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party threatens to sweep the chessboard . support for the two main contenders – the labour party and the ruling conservative party – seems stuck in low to-mid 30s . perhaps they are right ; it is being deserved to be . the conservatives are hoping that a government ’s record on the economy will convince undecided voters to break up in their favor late in campaigning for office . perhaps they are right ; they are deserved to be .
a second insight from psychological research , summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , concerns the role of cognition in decision-making . recent laboratory research finds that our conscious ideas devise , ex post , compelling rationales for the many decisions that our brains tend to make uninformed . recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thought devise , ex ante , compelling rationales for the many decisions that our brains tend to make an uninformed choice . for example , former us president george w. bush may have decided to invade iraq to overthrow saddam hussein for a variety of reasons : its strategic advantage , its humanitarian concern , and even its competition with its father . the majority involved , if not most , weapons of mass destruction , in the country .
fiscal restraint as reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth is also an important matter . but this makes implementing open trade policies all the more critical because they are the best tools at their disposal to compensate for the poor card that nature sometimes deals . likewise , fiscal restraint as reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth makes sense . other factors , in addition to trade policy , also matter . protection of property rights , civil or political liberties , protection from randomness and poor soils impede economic growth in developing countries .
durham , north carolina – my day starts with the “ coffee ” cup and end with hot chocolate . in between , i consume a wide variety of food and pharmaceuticals , including , like my day , there ’s , 81 species line of aspirin . in short , my own life – like everyone ’s – is enabled , enriched , and extended through a wide variety of plants and their derivatives . but the biodiversity upon which all of us depend is under threat , owing to human activities devastates and other plant-rich habitats . durham , north carolina – my day – begins with the cup of coffee and end with hot chocolate .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a potential settlement freeze is just the latest round in a cycle that has echoed so many times over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane if not more dangerous . indeed , the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts on israel to halt israeli settlement activity in its occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble an even larger energy source to expand onto more palestinian lands , to build more exclusively jewish settlements , and to destroy more arab homes in the face of so-called “ freezing ” the flow of goods . in the end , world pressure subsides , and the freeze can not materialize . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke , while that happens it does .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to keep “ stable prices ” ( or future inflation ) as desensitized prices ” to the us federal reserve act , and the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . the term “ stability-oriented prices ” is self-explanatory : the bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 50 , or even 100 , from now . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 . after 100 years , the price tag would be a whopping $ 724 . so , how is it that us policymakers would substitute for the latter ?
many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest group of migrants , but also leads to a brain drain away from needy countries . skills-biased immigration gives rise to a similar dilemma . as a liberal myself , i share such values , but recognize that insisting on them as a matter of policy ultimately undermines migrants ’ interests . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether new arrivals desperate for a job is better served as admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) or not to be admitted at all . but , again , one needs to revisit the trade-off .
as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which a presidential election is the sole political issue . such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . we need to recognize that , and to understand that it emerges not only when a apathetic or frightened public emerges , but also at a moment when an apparent stable advanced guard is , like a powerful political party that chooses and control leaders . instead , the reforms decreed from high above without having grassroots support – and thus with no durable durability . all we were direct appeals to wall street and the masses rather than encouragement of a genuine social consensus .
and the eurozone-wide rate of 20.8 % far exceeds its 8.7 % ratio . likewise , greece ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio is just 13 % . to be sure , a youth unemployment ratio of 13 % or 19 % is not grounds for complacency . during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare unfavorably with rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in spain , sweden , the us , and germany , denmark . but , while the eurozone ’s youth-unemployment rate has been rising since 2009 , its ratio has remained in the same ( though both have dramatically exceeded pre-2008 levels ) .
alternatively , china might end up being the new supplier of reserve assets . such a scenario would be direct if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or it is a indirect one if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account unit , special drawing rights , becomes a favored reserve managers asset , because the renminbi is now in the sdr basket . but there is a third possibility : global demand for american reserve assets might subside . reserve status for the sdr is long-held imf ambitions , even though the idea has never gained much traction . in such a scenario , supply of reserve-currency provision would align with one of the world ’s fast-growing regions .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including cuts of the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and increase military spending , and america ’s new experience seems likely to be faced with rapidly rising fiscal deficits and an enormous short-term demand boost . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which america remains a preeminent export market . but it is the peripheral countries that are likely to benefit the most . with america ’s economy already operating near full capacity ( with unemployment below 5 % ) , increased imports – and a stronger american dollar – would be needed to meet that demand .
princeton – over the past century , economic-policy debate has come to be locked in orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and market . does the state really control the state in the sense that it sets limits to governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially indispensable function – like fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? that old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europeans should respond to its debt-crisis efforts . the same question divides american policy in the snatch of november ’s presidential and congressional elections .
this implies that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own self-fulfilling prophecy . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own ; that brexit will harm europeans far more than it hurts britons . british negotiators will then react to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory logic by attempting to push the process to be as painful as possible for the rest of the eu . the second doom loop applies to the united kingdom , ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start beating europeans on their own games by reviving its automobile industry , or by turning its own wine into rival french and italian manufacturers .
the excessive domestic demand underpinning that evolution ’s evolution is now gone , permanently . when deleveraging in households is complete , domestic expenditure can rebound , but the savings rate will not and should not return to zero . alternatively , the shortcoming in domestic demand would reassert itself if the stimulus ended . a fiscal stimulus in the manner of backloading deficit-reduction efforts might help to tide an economy over while structural adjustment and the extension of competitiveness within the tradable sector continues . but , on its own , stimulus is not the answer .
the contrast between russia ’s handling of both iraq and iran underlines not only mr. putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . so america ’s objective of regime change in baghdad does not look too bad , although it can not be publicly backed . if an american war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from the narrow point of view of russian interests , whereas the resulting mess will become an issue for america ’s and its traditional allies rather than for russia . for president putin it makes sense to remain on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later in favor of his helpful silence in the form of america ’s influence on the successor iraqi regime regarding repayment of the country ’s russian-backed debts . that contrast also reflected a crucial difference between iran , an historic national state , and the artificial creation that is iraq .
indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia 's wars , serbia 's attitude toward its minorities reflected in a " nationalist consensus " in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . kosovo 's skepticism toward serbia 's democratic credentials stems primarily from its recognition that the conflict between kosovo and serbia has been structural , not based on a single one . no matter how egregious milosevic has exacerbated the tensions , his policies toward kosovo over ethnic albanians have been genuinely popular among the serbs . indeed , throughout the 10 years of yugoslavia 's wars , serbia 's attitude toward its minorities reflected a form of nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then a group of de-nazification . president kostunica 's rejection , by contrast , even discussion of putting internationally-indicted war criminals on trial , is not a hopeful wife here .
ultimately , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – just as another suspect , fhima lamin , who was later acquitted , in the face of a camp zeist in holland . in truth , most experts still believe that he was convicted of commission use fraud , and that cia bribed witness . moreover , libya formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims of its families and abandoning its weapons of mass destruction program . but there has never been any conclusive evidence that megrahi was involved in the lockerbie bombing . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace of western leaders ( and a flood of investment ) , the relationship has remained plagued by generally suspected and frequent backsliding .
this experience has motivated him to establish his academy of dangote , the hub for talent development , which aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens , more than either india or china . with the right education , skills , and job opportunities , this immense workforce could deliver rapid and sustainable economic growth for the entire region . without them , the continent has a much more likely to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and , eventually , conflict and chaos . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and enhanced prosperity .
yet , for a number of reasons , violence against women in afghanistan persists . first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes women themselves overtly inferiority . another young woman ’s husband , aisha , cuts her nose and ears from running away . hence , women are deprived of his basic rights and liberties . second , there is a strong political incentive to deprive women of their rights .
initially , events played out as a result of schedule . during greece ’s period of accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . annual gdp growth then picked up from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 – and remained around that level until the end of 2007 . both inflationary and fiscal deficits had fallen rapidly ; firms and consumer confidence became more confident ; investment was picking up ; and the government placed on an ambitious liberalizing reforms package . but entering europe ’s vast economic and monetary union was intended to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness .
other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulation to maintain a level playing field . momentum toward hfo ’s phase-out in the arctic is building . the danish shipowners ’ association and the arctic expedition cruise operator hurtigruten are just two of the players calling for tighter regulation or outright prohibition . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean-arctic alliance to launch a arctic commitment . the european parliament , for its part , has already supported such a move .
in fact , it is now among the most charismatic and charming leaders i have met ; the other two – former united nations secretary general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – are also either african or african-american . in africa , indeed , there has not been a single grand figure since the death of south african president nelson mandela , bringing together bravery , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . yet john f. kennedy was little more than an iron curtain . he did one big thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis . and his gift to motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , indeed , it out-lasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy .
some steps , including the removal of america ’s trade embargo , are prohibited by the helms-burton act , enacted by the us congress in 1996 . it engaged in much of its tentative planning for the 1944 bretton woods conference , and it did have an active delegation there . but revitalizing cuba ’s membership at the international monetary fund raises a very real possibility . texas was one of the imf ’s 40 original members , compared to its adoption of the us state department for most of its obligations . sachs ’s administration shows the restoration of diplomacy relations between cuba and the united states unlocks new prospects for the island ’s economy .
and many excellent political leaders – for example , george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents – have not held intellectuals . moreover , they have the credibility that comes with the lack of appetite for re-election , either because their term in office was reduced in advance , or because they are known to prefer quiet academic life . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make dire policymakers , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or other interactions with one another . it goes without saying that academic or technological expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure that government officials can succeed . technocrats can play a helpful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians have become discredited or parties become deadlocked .
following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which has devastated the coastlines of 11 countries , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – in 168 governments agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , the comprehensive trilateral plan for disaster reduction . today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial upgrading , and urban development – vital to accommodate the expanding global population – is set to reach nine billion by 2050 without adequate regard for disaster risk . in the absence of a comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades . in this sense , climate-change projections should call into question politicians and business leaders to re-calibrate their perceptions of exposure and catastrophe risk . decision-makers must recognize that there can not be anything like a natural disaster ; that only is the catastrophic impact of natural hazards on infrastructure , involving jobs , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals .
yet nature-based solutions have continued to attract relatively little attention – and even less funding . two years ago , researchers from the nature conservancy and its colleagues published new research showcasing nature-based research showcasing solutions for the potential of fight against climate change . yet nature-based solutions featured relatively little attention – and even fewer funding . fortunately , this may be starting to change course . yet , while that event failed to live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for clear steps to enhance nationally determined contributions by 2020 , ” it offered a platform for a new generation of climate and nature advocates .
to be sure , iran has continued progressing toward international engagement – thereby protecting the nuclear-test-ban treaty , which trump is not eager to defend – rouhani ’s administration will have to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , he will have to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not spearheading a shia liberation movement . yet trump will not be easy to compel rouhani to step down . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani is providing the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain essentially unchanged . just a couple of weeks ago , in reality , the us administration was being pressured to admit that rouhani was fulfilling his part of the iran nuclear deal .
eventually , these cases will begin to crumble under the weight of their collective absurdity . the hope that turkey is finally uniting its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy lies in tatters . but the damage done will extend far beyond the suffering of the hundreds of innocent bodies that were locked up under false initial pretenses . the mainstream independent media do not report inconsistencies for fear of provoking a government or gülen network . ludicrous cases are ongoing , and more people are being lured into them .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that they claimed , “ forestall a short-term equilibrium of payments pressures , give france reciprocal support , and further enhance financial stability . ” but russia is not likely to draw on this kind of emergency credit line during the current crisis . in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions have swung against russia . but its vague language has reflected larger hesitation , which will likely continue as the crisis abates .
america ’s economic impact on politics , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute the policy responses , rather than fueling greater activism . continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainty , tradeoffs of debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls of both the labor and housing market , congressional dysfunction would keep america ’s overall economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would simultaneously devour potential output . in other countries , the confederate results primarily from economics and policy . they will also try to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink sending manufacturing facilities to lower-wage countries .
paris – the riots that rampaged across greece can have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into georpapandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodation with either the european union or with modern economics . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing socialist parties across europe . that the traditional left has been so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis , more than odd , instead of thriving on renewed doubts about capitalism , europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s socialist parties have failed to make any serious political inroads . in countries where they hold power , like spain , they are now quite unpopular . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray – as are germany ’s social democrats , despite coming as a part of a ruling grand coalition .
whatever has happened among former managing director of the international monetary fund and his accusers , the fact that his detention and paraded through the mass press as a form of criminal suspicion has been much criticized in france . one allegation , made recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrests were typical of american puritanism . in response to 9/11 , and to dominique strauss-kahn , the recent meeting with the african head of the international monetary fund and his accusers in the new york city hotel had very little in common except for one thing : once again , the cultural conflict had been invoked in a misleading way . the french , he alleged , being from latin culture , had a more liberal grasp of sexual behavior . they were a more tolerant of human frailties and had more refined appreciation of seduction ’s art .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
nobody ever doubted that ukraine had vastly changed in its twelve years of independence . yet , caught in the sights of a gun barrel , nobody – not to mention the courageous men and women who had camped out in their hundreds of thousands of gunned down in universities before ukraine ’s parliament – was aware of certainty whether these changes had wrenched ukrainians ’ grip on fear and apathy . the success of their defiance shows the force of the idea that hillary clinton outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means accepting responsibility for one ’s destiny in one of their own hands . they have reason to be very proud , indeed , for good reason . self-confidence among the governing and vigilance among the rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true freedom , and they can never be again set up in our own homeland .
israeli prime ministers are supposed to come in two varieties : sharply cutting east european males and grizzled military officers talking a good game before acquiescing to the most recent american or international requests for concessions , talks , and aid . while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir have not been averse to lecturing , they have lacked strategic cunning . his unrelenting disquisitions of israel ’s strategic environment , security demands , red lines , and jewish history are being offset only by conciliatory talk about reopening negotiations , which are outright rejection of palestinians , who , like him , seem to have shown weaknesses . netanyahu is a unwillingness to compromise disconcerts confuses and , often , enrages the american people . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessments of the middle east do not line up with this was what the obama administration – in thrall to its collapsing romanstates with moderate islamists – and his devoted supporters among jewish americans .
in practice , charisma is an ambiguous synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” for example , the british public did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but – a year later – his vision , confidence , and communication skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxieties following the fall of france and the dunkirk evacuation . and it was then , in 1945 , after a public-finance focus turned out to win the war to constructing the welfare state , churchill was voted out of office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; the change in followers ’ needs did . followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often during a personal , organizational , or social crisis .
the government has also ensured the eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , it will permit ireland to retain permanent seats on the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space , in which to engage in a more effective referendum campaign . but the picture is far from clear-cut . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes party commands a strong popular majority , from 62 % to 23 % , with just 15 % of voters undecided . this combination of legal guarantees and altered economic circumstances helps to mobilize a majority in the treaty ’s favor .
eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . finally , the eu must do more to develop its own financial toolkit and promote europe ’s international use . the solution is not to meddle in competitive rules , but rather to give those in the responsibility of security some assert in the decision-making process . to this end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy specialists , as well as some other economists , we propose that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security be given the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . a decision to reject a merger , or to discourage investment , that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles .
whereas the west lost no time in imposing eu sanctions against president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it has refrained from punishing israel , its occupation of palestinian lands . for israel , its democracy was always a strategic boon , as a democratic israel was a natural fit in its western alliance . a newly passed bill , clearly intended to israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) in poland , would have allowed mbs to be dismissed out of hand for disloyalty to the sovereign . ngos ’ focus on human rights and peacemaking is scrutinized as foreign agents . the more that israel embraces the putin-inspired version of its practices , however , the weaker becomes its associated with its own strategic rearguard action in the west .
but the issue is not just one for those aspiring to be world leaders . mr. romano prodi , the president of the eu commission and italy 's former prime minister , responded to president bush 's most famous declaration by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the whole earth , and not just the american-made industry ” of american industry . in kosovo , restricting intervention to aerial bombardments has made that strategy a total achievement : nato forces have suffered not as a single casualty to fighting , but around 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and three chinese civilians have been killed . this approach to the responsibilities of the national leader , stated bluntly and overtly , forces the us to consider a fundamental ethical issue . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their citizens ' interests , and to what extent should concern the welfare of people everywhere ?
indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring truce – and the accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk significant policy autonomy to do so – allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . furthermore , the delayed implementation of the key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine offers clear evidence that , at present , russia dictates eu-ukrainian engagement terms . in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy in russia , particularly in view of hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe repeatedly overreaches russian president vladimir putin . ukraine increasingly appears to be falling into “ frozen conflict ” – russian foreign-policy specialty .
thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the big headache of every developing country ’s finance minister nowadays is trying to keep his or her country ’s currency from moving up too quickly against the dollar . but was it ever really happening to anybody how hard americans had to work to ensure that everyone else would have to look good ? with the weakness of the dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , practically everyone laments america ’s spendthrift habits . when was the last time it happened , however , it is happening ? chronic debt-crisis countries , from mexico to brazil to brazil , all are fighting capital inflows by investors looking for the exit as dollar collapses .
new york – hurricane harvey has walked away in its wake upended lives and vast property damage , estimated by some at $ 150-180 billion . yet the rains that have inundated the texas coast over the better part of a week and the hurricane that takes on the eye of south florida , also raise deep questions about the united states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ economic system and policies . to be sure , no particular climate event , if combined , can be outright associated with a rise in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but researchers have long predicted that such increases would spur not only average temperatures , but also weather variability – and especially the occurrence of extremes like hurricane harvey . to be sure , it is ironic that an event so linked to climate change would occur within a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers – and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil fuels driving global warming .
europe , for its part , has divided the north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided east and west . by bringing together europe ’s means of production together – first through the european coal and steel community , and , later , through the common market and the eu – the eu was hoping to bind europe ’s states together so closely that a war between them would no longer be an option . rather than banding together , each new challenge split the eu into ever-smaller groups . europe has divided the north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis has divided east and west . pro-europeans need to accommodate the sources of discontent and rethink the forms they used to express the european ideal .
given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is real progress . unfortunately , that is not necessarily what the us president does . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to push the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to resume in office beyond two terms met a robust opposition wall . government and commercial activities practically ground to halt this spring as democracy activists , in alliance with politicians and legislators opposed for a third term , battled obasanjo ’s main allies to thwart the proposed bill . in nigeria today , a key question nowadays is not whether chinese president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him .
parfit ’s reaction to this line of argument directs him to assert that is perhaps even bolder in its defense of objectivism in ethics . if parfit is correct , there is far less disagreement among apparently conflicting moral theories than what we have in mind . he views three leading theories of what we are willing to do – one deriving from kant , one from the social-contract tradition of hobbesian , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism , arguing that kantian and social-contract theory needs to be reformed in order to be defensible . then he argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism , which is a parfit of the same broad family as utilitarianism . defenders of each of these theories are , in parfit ’s vivid phrase , “ climbing ” on different sides .
this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding from spilled coffee , both cases of lawsuits recently . rather than csr , the us should have psr itself ( a personal responsibility for social responsibility ) . but this does not mean that there is a corporation ’s right entity to be committed to pursuing altruism – even though its various stakeholders evidently can spend any part of the income they earn from a company and other sources in altruistic ways . one may also argue for psr on the grounds that asking for csr becomes a way for “ bypassing the buck ” – evading personal responsibility for doing good . with the rise of corporate firms , large family firms have generally disappeared .
tokyo – hillary clinton , ’s recent trip to asia , may one day be seen as the most significant visit by the region by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . what clinton did and said during her asian tour would mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades earlier , or the start of a distinct new phase in that epoch . rebuilding us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power during the cold war ’s peak , and prepared the way for china to open up its economy – a decision that , more than any other us power had defined today ’s world . by the time , kissinger ’s tour produced the clearest signals so far that america is reluctant to take up china as a push for regional hegemony . in fact , kissinger ’s mission was triggered by a us diplomacy revolution ; china was beginning to take one day .
this represents a vital opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for proper bits of evolving supply chains . technology and knowledge will still matter , but , as incomes rise , its composition is shifting toward increasingly sophisticated goods and services . rising chinese incomes also imply a structural change for china , because the continued growth it presupposes a shift toward higher-value activities . thus , china ’s role in this process is changing : as soon as the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western-manufactured products . indeed , rising chinese incomes also reveal a structural change for china , because continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value activities .
historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains . but , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incrementally , because it typically wound up paying the extra . for his part , macron , ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex ; the symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism – undermine europe ’s normalization , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance both china and the united states . but his recent moves seem to be reproducing them . historically , french diplomacy excusing them at grand bargains .
this failure is rooted in the confinement of individual countries ’ electoral politics , which is pushing policymakers to pretend that they can address economic issues with national policies on their own . at a time when strong , coordinated action is needed to stave off financial meltdown in the european union , the popular support that has driven european integration over the past six decades is waning . after almost 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity was so important , indulging nationalist sentiment , without regard for its potential consequences . in parallel , they do not rule out the fact that their economies are too closely interconnected for independent economic policies to work . dublin – europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s needs , and europeans its aspirations are at odds .
for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of an argument . a full appraisal of the war in iraq and its effects on the middle east will take a decade or more . has national elections been held in lebanon and local elections in saudi arabia in the past six months . the skeptics hold the point , but they go too far . clearly , the january 2005 election provided a positive step for the region .
as thomas mann once wrote : “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” freedom is changing the frame and the substance of choice , as well as one of individual and collective responsibility . it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a sort of unshakable fate . in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return to europe ” returning to europe ” their diversity and pristine ; their own vivacity , mysteries , and their memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought a lesson that moves from a closed society to an open one is both possible and extremely difficult .
cambridge – important tax reform is high on the agenda for the united states in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for this past years , creating detailed plans to monetize how corporate and personal incomes have been taxed . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for this past years , creating detailed overhauling how corporate and personal incomes are taxed . now , with a republican majority in the senate and a republican president in the white house , those plans can provide the basis for legislative action . i believe that it will have a very favorable effect on business investment , raising productivity , and overall economic growth .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , nor the berlin wall . instead , palme praised eastern germany 's leader , deutsche mark honecker , underscoring shared goals and a mutual struggle for peace and development . palme 's main speech mentioned `` détente , '' " trust , " and " friendship , " but never " freedom . this alliance between the two parties resulted in grave distortions in fundamental western values . palme and gayodor lafontaine , then one of the opposition 's leaders in germany , failed to see the cold war as mainly a clash between liberty and tyranny .
a different kind of revolution went hand in the european formerly colonies in asia , where native peoples had no appetite for rule once more by the western powers that had been so ignominiously defeated by japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians and malays wanted their own freedom as well . these aspirations were frequently rebuffed at the un , established in 1945 . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of the 1945 consensus . for a short while , many prominent members – albert einstein , for one – believed that only a world government would ensure global peace .
guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson , who has campaigned for deregulation and allowed banks to take on far more leveraging , it should come as no surprise that the administration veered from one policy to another , aided by absolute conviction until it was abandoned to another . even if confidence were indeed all that mattered , the economy would flounder . moreover , what little action was undertaken was aimed at depreciating the financial system . but the financial crisis is merely one of several crises confronting the country : underlying macroeconomic problems was made worse by sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population . those who would spend are not having that money , and those with money are n’t spending .
the deeper problem lies with the excess financialization of the global economy that has occurred since the 1990s . the policy dilemmas that have resulted from rising inequality , greater volatility , lessened room to manage the real economy , will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . the policy dilemmas that have resulted from rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room for managing the real economy , will continue to preoccupy policymaking in the decades ahead . amid a foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods reflect a particularly potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to overthrow large foreign reserves . amid a foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant level of private investment in tradable goods gives a particularly potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override .
even a relatively small amount of material like the cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – could cause serious harm if combined with conventional explosives at the so-called dirty bomb in the so-called dirty bomb , lest it be deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear-security framework if they are met at the international conference on nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect nuclear material when they are used or stockpiled , not just when they are carried internationally , as is often the case now . this will be the first such event , open to any country that is open to every country . at the top of the agenda should be ratifying improvements to the global nuclear-security framework , as they comply at the international conference on nuclear-security : enhancing global efforts at july 1-5 .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who had just invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali near new delhi , to watch the two countries play the semifinal in the cricket world cup . the match was played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , a process , rather than the protocol , will determine how bilateral relations moved forward . on the policy front , however , the two countries were not equitably matched . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – that of a president , deputy prime minister and army chief of staff – it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority .
if the concept of viral sovereignty ” were applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of varieties of hiv today ; these enable researchers to test drugs and vaccines against all the different strains of the virus causes aids . indonesia argues that the nation ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses should be protected via the same mechanisms by the un food and agriculture organization that use scientists to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices that sometimes enable multinational corporations and wealthy governments to derive outrageous profits from indigenous agriculture . under an fao seed accord , a nation may register plants , shared their seeds , and derive profits from resulting products . it is dangerous folly , however , to widen this policy to viruses .
since 2001 , unit labor costs have grown faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis the developing world . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . this , in turn , calls for increased investment in innovation and human capital . a new polish government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s greatest challenge will be to implement reforms that enable italy ’s poor economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors , after years of poor policies and neglect . this , in turn , calls for increased investment in innovation and human capital .
there is a misconception at work here . policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens justifiably fear that a wonk in question might be in thrall to a particular ideology or methodology ; that advice might be politically motivated ; or that advisers might tailor their counsel to their own careers ( how to get that plum work on wall street after being abandoned by government , to be sure ) . but technical competence is not the only or even the main issue on our side . conflicting motivations are arguably a more important reason why citizens increasingly mistrust experts . policy wonks are thinking of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice .
thus , germany seems destined to be stuck in the doldrums for some time to come . whichever party combination arrives at the summit – and helmut kohl ’s governing coalition still must be treated as the narrow favorite one to enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major initiative of the unlikely support of its policy opponents . while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high , and unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics is increasing , and may even have brought right-wing populists , who democratic germany has so far been spared . the price of inaction is sizeable .
europe has ’s location as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with close to 40 % of all international deal-making , and the growing importance of european – crisis notwithstanding – crisis notwithstanding – as a reserve currency mean that the eu , just as it does america , may set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook , next door . the difference is that america is behaving decisively , and the eu does not . europe , ’s leadership on climate change and development aid could , if well handled well , lay the groundwork for a new morality authority . to be sure , europe occupies the moral high ground , which america has most often vacillated , owing to its missteps in iraq and afghanistan . but there is little sign that governments wield this opportunity .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is on track to surpass david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . still , netanyahu ’s israel would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s ’s jewish character with his democracy . as l.p. hartley wrote in the opening of the go-among himself : “ the past is a foreign country : they are doing things differently there . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
indeed , in september 2008 , for example , former us president roman herzog published a polemic entitled “ to stop the ecj ! ” by accusing the luxembourg judges of grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of eu member states , he urged the constitutional court to invalidate a few controversial ecj rulings . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the eu constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , as well as in northern ireland during the referendum on the lisbon treaty . herzog ’s broadside resonated throughout europe , where for some time there has been considerable disquiet over “ court activism ” and what some see as an irreversible trend toward the empowerment of the ecj and other eu institutions . in many member states , the ecj ’s rulings yielded a backlash , primarily on the left , with trade union and social movements targeting the court ’s purported zeal in siding with business over the workers ’ interests . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the eu constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , as well as in northern ireland during a referendum on the lisbon treaty .
at the same time , countries must ease workers ’ capacity to change job jobs through reforms to their labor markets and social-safety nets . that means shifting focus from slow-ward-looking labor-market policies , which strive to protect workers in existing jobs , future-oriented measures such as innovative insurance mechanisms and proactive labor-market policies . on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example . besides , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will still have to be overhauled , with benefits – for example , of retirement ages and health-care provision having made more portable and adjusted for evolving workarrangements – including the expansion of “ gig ” economies . here , there have already been several proposals , including universal basic income , currently piloted in finland and some subnational jurisdictions like ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and various types of portable social security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits .
the us , too , is failing when it demands soft power . in the wake of 9/11 , a good deal of sympathy and understanding worldwide has been provided for america ’s military response against the taliban . just as cuban general robert caslen , a pentagon ’s deputy director for the terrorist war , put it , “ we are not killing them at a faster pace than they are being created . ” the manner in which the us uses military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio . according to caslen , “ the us in the pentagon is behind us opponents in its use of communications – either to recruit or to train the ” ” ” ” ” ” .
our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy consumption , and a cleaner environment . at times , these technologies pay for itself and will be accepted . yet this is not what has been happening so far . the key to a clean future is clean technology , whose costs have been falling steadily , to continue doing so . air , soil , and water pollution have been increasing , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year .
at the same time , the private sector is bringing innovations to the classroom . for example , some providers are developing student-teacher teaching models , in which students may watch teacher-created online exit videos , in order to concentrate precious teacher-student face time , may be focused on interacting , rather than lecturing . after all , a lecture from a good teacher , even if broadcasts over the internet are already underway , or too few qualified teachers are available , may still receive an education . likewise , skilled teachers can now deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at once , despite having hundreds of miles away . as a result , students in places where schools have not yet been built or too few qualified teachers are available , they may yet acquire an education .
to help such domestic powerhouses boost their market-driven leverage , the us government often favors them at the expense of its foreign competitors . the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of foodstuffs and steel pipes ; but this year ’s confrontations are set to extend well beyond commerce . in the last few years , the chinese government has invested heavily in state-owned companies and in privately-owned “ owned ” “ national champions , ” the latter focused mostly on ensuring that china ’s gains from helping markets , while the us leadership controls as much spoils as possible . when the us congress takes up the debate over climate change , for example , and some us lawmakers have called for a cap-and-trade scheme , others will demand an awareness of why america should accept binding commitments to curb emissions while the chinese refuse . likewise , china ’s leaders , lest the us play the scapegoat , will use surging national pride to bolster their standing and solidify their hand in negotiating .
alternatively , they would need to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , an approach with which most central banks ( with the possible exception of the bank of japan ) are not sensible . but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation may stem from permanent supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more now . that central-bank patience risks derailing inflation expectations . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risk of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit expansion , and bubbles . so , although central banks are reluctant to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline to achieve it , because they have already done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation may remain low for the longer term .
beijing – what would persuade chinese leaders that they must move quickly to cement an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? one such catalyst might be financial crisis emanating from a country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a global pact for global leadership might serve that purpose , rather than creating an attractive option . achieving an agreement of just such scale and influence would require world leaders – particularly in the american and chinese alike – to come under intense strain . a contest of global leadership might serve that purpose , rather than an attractive option .
winston churchill ’s famous proclamation of delaying tactics by the british and french left on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . in fanning the vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he will dishonor first and then defeat . it is not as much sarkozy ’s performance as president that most rightly rejected ; it is his very essence . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominating their fears about the future , the french need a reassuring father or maternal figure , not a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics , as well as france ’s own proud tradition , that every citizen has the right to equality under the rule of law . for , although a majority of the french nowadays may be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s deputy immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that he will be re-elected in 2012 .
at the same time , the international community must encourage the integration of refugees in major host countries such as turkey , kenya , lebanon , jordan , syria , syria , and south africa . as it stands , such countries receive just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee that they demanded annually to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during their first years of displacement . millions end up in protracted displacement , expenditures of an estimated 25 years , on average , are now stuck in limbo , uncertain when they might return home . in may 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept a combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through issuing humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada alone having said to resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , there is a clear case to be achievable .
berkeley – inequality is on the public mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequalities and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet , in both countries , some social inequalities have been on the decline in recent decades . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually disappearing . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among the lower castes ) are currently becoming politically assertive .
yet unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern member countries , with output still lagging behind both germany and other northern european countries . when the crisis began , production costs in greece were roughly 30 % higher than in germany , meaning that greece had exported very little and been imported very much . the main reason for a lag is not simply low demand or large debts . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % above what in germany . there is an overwhelming gap between unit labor costs – adjusted for productivity-enhancing productivity – in germany and the heavily indebted southern member countries .
most important , despite the russian army ’s already massing against the us , the us is embarking on an electoral campaign . next month , ukraine ’s citizen will freely elect a new president – the best rebuke possible to russian propaganda of its supposed failure to disavow democracy . and yet , just as ukrainians are working to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule there is an emerging threat , in the form of a “ peace-offensive ” speech , that old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve . putin ’s gambit resembles the infamous yalta conference of 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a split europe that is enslaved half of the continent for nearly a half-century . in effect , russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper about how to resolve the kremlin ’s crisis is really a peaceful offensive that is offensive that is offensive to peace .
in march 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading to the reactor , killing 108 people . yet the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from the past . moreover , iraqi scud missiles bombarded tel aviv and one came close to hitting dimona . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability to missile strikes . and , while israel ’s arrow of ballistic missile defenses that now surround dimona , may be superior to the patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria , the more advanced scuds , and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more competent challenge than saddam ’s own projectiles .
until recently , investors had been hoping that the american federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a us recession , because this was what it had done on previous occasions . now they must recognize that the fed may no longer be in a strong position to do that . if interest rates were lowered far beyond a certain point , the dollar would have come under renewed pressure , and longer-term bonds would in fact be bouncing back into yield . moreover , the fiscal authorities ’ ability to stimulate the us economy is being constrained by an unwillingness to accumulate additional dollar reserves . if interest rates were lowered beyond a certain point , the dollar would have come under renewed downward pressure , and longer-term bonds would , in fact , have moved up in yield .
and , after he marry and has children of his own , two highly educated , male parents will benefit , resulting in twice as much literate internal talk , double connections , and double encouragement to succeed him . as us secretary of state hillary clinton has put it on the newsweek issue , “ the world needs to think more strategically and fair tapping into women ’s growth potential . ” an educated , pushy girl is making all that difference . studies show that helping women access business and grow businesses helps to create jobs and boost incomes . yet , on the planet at a time of near-success , empowering fearful , uneducated women to stay home makes far more socially acceptable than confronting that means deciding to drag down incomes for all .
by the 1990 ’s , the british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and expansionary than that of the eu . indeed , the last time britain had a strong european voice more than two decades ago , the us had a strong european voice . one such factor driving the uk ’s ’s ’s ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions are approaching those of the us or other english-speaking former colonies . by the 1990s , the british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and expansionary than that of the eu . as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make an effective contribution to european reform .
but the battle between pro– and anti-europeans conveys what is really at stake – and thus what should be a focus of the electoral debate : how europeans can generate sustained economic growth . broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . this question , rather than an tacit defensive campaign against euroskepticism – should be the eu ’s central item on deliberation for parties that will push an improved europe to all . the upcoming elections will harden the public ’s verdict on the success or failure of the austerity policies undertaken . but it will also determine whether europe will remain the world ’s leading economic power , maintain its social model , and safeguard its rights and liberties in a world that will not wait for europeans to resolve their differences .
then there is the concept of systemic risk , one that is not just in the beholder ’s eye but may be impossible to predict . the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 was perceived as systemic risks from washington , dc , but not from most european capitals . americans thought parochial to europeans ; they thought the american disproportionately influenced its 2000 mile off border with mexico . and who , on the eve of july 1998 , thought that a russian default would trigger global financial panic ? all agree that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though this was urgent ! ) , but what about brazil ?
concern about such divergences has also hit a task force headed by european union president herman van rompuy , intended to devise fundamental reforms to eu economic policy coordination rules . a crucial proposal by the task force ’s first meeting was the development of competitiveness indicators , and then forced member countries to take in “ remedial action ” action ” rules ” should the eu find large divergences . competitiveness , usually measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . the eurozone ’s southern european members must lower their wage costs in order to claw back down the competitiveness that they have lost since adopting the common currency .
today , as more people are waking up to the threat that america 's president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global hostility movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump is becoming a lame duck by erecting revelations of his administration . mexico city – during the spanish civil war – did during the spanish civil war , when thousands of young americans went to spain to join in fighting fascism as part of the “ abraham lincoln brigade ” ( mat ) . the opposition , with its support , could adopt three tactics . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump turns into a lame duck by erecting revelations of his administration . today , as still more people are waking up to the threat that america 's president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global non-violent movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency .
no single measure would do more to make the world a less threatening place than substantially reduced its level of oil consumption . and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than the sharply raising of the gasoline tax in a country that consumes more than any other : the american . in the short term , it would take americans to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices . none of this would occur at once . after all , if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they could use less of it . so , if americans had to pay more to reduce global oil consumption , alternative energy sources , such as ethanol prices , and alternative forms of transport like electrically powered automobiles , would become commercially viable .
new york – internet firms are supposedly all about cutting edge , but the reality and buzz occasionally conflict . consider groupon : its focus is the strength of groups , but its actual business is the old adage that direct-mail marketing and coupons . clearly , the model makes sense to many customers : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers and aims at 150 million , respectively , by year-end . but groupon is proliferating that model to a much broader audience – not so much to coupon user posts , but rather to merchants bidding coupons . in fact , groupon is doing for e-mail marketing what other internet firms do for yellow pages or classify ads : encouraged shopkeepers that use advanced technology to reach their customers .
the prevailing view is that a downward trend largely reflects a decline in the equilibrium , or “ natural , ” policy interest rates , driven by shifts in the saving rate and investment fundamentals . in other words , the greater propensity to save in emerging economies , coupled with investors ’ rising preference for safe assets , has increased the supply of savings worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainties in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates has thus become the subject of lively debate . this perceived shortfall in “ the natural ” interest rates is viewed as the main impediment to economic recovery , for it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide enough stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . conspicuously absent from the discussion , however , lies in the role of financial factors in explaining the trend decline in real rates .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book the new geography of employment , the salience of this new divide is alluring : university graduates account for about one-half of the total population in much of the affluent american metropolitan areas , but they are four times as many in worse-off areas . in intriguing new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have examined the political consequences . they find that american districts , where the economy was severely hit by chinese exports , have reacted by replacing moderate representatives with more radical policy – from either the left or the right . in fact , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this geopolitical divide , at least for now . those who happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught up to the tumult of globalization have multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and their children ’s fortunes and their neighbors are all highly correlated .
the un commission of inquiry gathered information that identifies some of those responsible for the crimes that it has investigated , but it did not make it public . the names of those responsible should be made public , either the commission or the next body created by the un human rights council . the un human rights council could act on its own . those who would be named would report to report , and given a chance to refute the findings . if they fail to react , or if their responses were unconclusively inconclusive , their names and the crimes attributed to them should be committed to the public .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than elsewhere in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming notably weak and divided , the extreme right cresting in opinion polls . already , for the time being , le pen seems inreverting to form . these ingredients could constitute a recipe for disaster , which could be avoided . but , if proper leaders are usually at the helm , the january 7 attacks could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival . “ national unity ” disloomed political maneuver , she complained after being uninvited to a rally the day following attacks .
that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across both the tradable and non-tradable sectors of the economy . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and the shift of output toward higher-value-added components of global supply chains . meanwhile , the non-tradable side of the us should grow . if policymakers select a market-based model based on a large state-dominated sector sheltered from inward and outward competition , innovation goals are unlikely to be met , adversely affected by future growth . that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across both the tradable and non-tradable sectors of the us economy .
this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first-ever electoral victory in 2000 , has made putin a potemkin liberal democracy . then there are those occasions when a leader ’s election is treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of dictatorship . of course , elections alone do not also produce a make of democracy . consider the cases when elections empower an absolute majority of a ethnic or religious group , which then rides roughshod over minorities – an outcome seen all too frequently in the balkans , for example . this year , another election , neither free nor fair , will give putin another term in office .
beyond timing , they had little in common with each other . what they share is that their “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats made an alternative – no deal at all – much worse . equally problematic has been the tendency to compare both sets of negotiations . in greece ’s case , negotiations were propelled by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with its threatened revisionist ambitions , or to act as a conduit to european – bound german migrants . yet iranians are anything like nazi rule , and there is no country like the soviet union that is posing the type of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 .
integrity seems like an old-fashioned idea , but it is at the heart of who we are , and how we live . when drugs are prohibited but some athletes use it anyway to play field tilts in favor of a free-for-all . in prohibiting drug use in the context of the olympic games , we owe it to our athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat . after all , what if that advantage has come in the use of a enhancing drug ? for athletes wishing to “ clean ” compete for light , the threat that they might be overwhelmed by an out-of-touch competitor that is not more rapid , stronger , or more dedicated , but who pick up a drug to the margins is profoundly personal .
in fact , external powers , meanwhile , have compounded the problem . for starters , the crisis countries have ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations toward sustainable levels . more broadly , they felt pressure from the imf and america ’s treasury to remove capital-flow constraints , which magnified the risks and made sustaining pegged exchange rates still more problematic . this crisis-battered developed sketch highlights how much has changed over the next 20 years . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of short-term , hot money .
the renminbi is coming , but not before the end of 2020 , by which the time shanghai will have become a world-class international financial center . and , even after that , the renminbi will probably share the international stage with the dollar , not to be substituted . the one thing that could precipitate a demise of the us dollar would be bouts of reckless economic mismanagement in the us . beyond this , the dollars in euros are going anywhere . it does not account for the replacement of the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
if americans rejected a president ’s policies at the polls , america may be writing off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . i , along with a number of other wealthy americans , are contributing $ millions of dollars to grass-roots organizations engaged in the run-up to the 2004 us presidential election . in that effort , i have committed up to $ 10 million to “ america coming together ” ( act ) a grassroots-roots get-out-the-voting operation , plus $ 2.5 million to the odorgy voter fund , a popular online advocacy group that is airing advertisements to highlight administration ’s misdeeds . the us is deeply worried about the direction in which the bush administration is taking the united states and the world . if american voters endorse these policies , the american people must live with hostility to the world , tolerate a vicious cycle of escalating violence .
after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed – and almost 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation of afghanistan – the kremlin has stepped in to mediate discussions between the taliban and the representatives of other afghan groups . but for now , russia will most likely disappoint its adherents in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . there is little reason to think that russia , which has never been a particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building , will be able to mediate , much less underwrite , durable peace agreements . while russia did not over-consolidate an american presence , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . yet the middle east – a region stemming from a manifold conflict from its religious , ethnic , political , historic , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted foreign actors ’ resolve .
moreover , owing to the complex rules that govern the level of welfare benefits , an older worker paying this payroll tax typically receives no additional benefit . and that amount in part reflects the fact that employed people collecting social security and medicare succumb to the payroll tax that finances them . but experience shows that decision to retire – or to work fewer hours – affects the compensation from which that group ’s members receive . for many of the elderly workers , the choice is not whether to work , but to how much . a payroll tax paid to each worker is 6.65 % ( employers pay an same rate ) and is other , in addition to personal income taxes .
but , should that fail , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s leaders , and kaliningrad oblast designing a viable future to the enclave . up to now , the eu 's interest in kaliningrad has centered on how to curb these visa rights that oblast ’s citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states for as much as a visit to the rest of russia as possible . eu enlargement will bring enormous impetus to europe ’s whole , particularly the baltic region , from which so many new eu members will come there . nevertheless , eu enlargement will enhance trade and economic growth , and these may have provided genuine incentives to make kaliningrad an increasingly attractive neighbor and trading partner , not just a source of illegal russian-backed special migrants to the eu adopt a supposedly lax visa regime .
without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained , creating a severe problem for developed and developing countries alike . lev artsimovich , the tokamak of the inventor , has said that “ fusion will be ready when society needs it . ” one hopes that it is right to do so . but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy the odds , the world should be stepping up investment in new technologies . one hopes that it is right . our future may all depend on it .
would the imf not have insisted on a far tougher program , with fewer financing , for any country outside of europe ? the apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that a managing director who made the decision to back greece that was so heavily outspoken , and yet christine lagarde , a french finance minister , named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after her resignation . europeans , moreover , dominate the fund ’s guidance , the ecb ’s governance chief . it is a de-reassuring conflict of interest that the debtors dominate an international institution that lends them huge sums . an apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that a managing director who made the decision to back greece that is supposedly supporting so heavily “ greece ” and which at that time had hardly disguising his aspirations to run for the french presidency – that is , before his arrest in new york on trumped-up rape charges .
just now , the signs are still far from promising . there are few new faces or thoughts on the horizon ; they are on the horizon . for a start , the eu will need the strongest leadership team to find itself dotting through treacherous waters and implementing crucial financial reforms . building on its wake will not require the eu to be among its strongest leadership team that it can find shaked through treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms . so the three problems that europe will confront in the second half of this year remain closely interconnected .
in many countries , campaigning costs are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . a more nuanced approach would focus attention on eliminating the underlying , inter-connected barriers that women face when they won an elected office and run successful campaigns . such hurdles include the electoral system itself ( women fare better below proportional representation than they ’ve been in first-past-the-post single-member districts ) ; lack of access to funding ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make it harder to take punishing and unforeseeable workplace conditions . one of the most powerful tools we have been money , but is a significant reason for it . in many countries , campaigning costs are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender .
this reflects both public-investment shortfalls and an information gap : investing in job training in a fast-changing industrial structure is like shooting at a moving destination . powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country ; they are all free to some single country . the same issues arise everywhere , with differences in outcomes that reflect variability in market flexibility and socio-political choices . in the us , these adverse trends are date back to the level of some 1980 . in the face of imperfect information about the future required , labor markets seem to be beyond balance .
wikipedia ’s boosters have trumpet it as heralding the coming of age of “ web 2.0 . ” but we have been here before – indeed , throughout much of human history – in much of human history . the sharp divide between manufacturers and the consumer of knowledge began only around 300 years ago , when book printers secured royals for their business in the face of " piracy ” in a burgeoning literary market . whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the stockpiling and transmission of vast quantities of various kinds of information in cyberspace , web 2.0 ” supposedly renders an entire process interactive , removing the final frontier separating the transmitter and providing information . the legacy of their success , the copyright law , continues to impede attempts to render cyberspace the free marketplace of thought .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal aims . french president françois hollande was elected on the argument that a high-financing world was his enemy . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and elsewhere generated glossy presentations about their cities ’ competing advantages over london : lower property costs , lower corporate tax rates ( that sounds implausible when claimed with irish accent ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and sche dealerships – all essential services that turn out to be a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations have raised a wry smile or two . hence , a delegation after a brexit delegation of ministers , mayors , rarely assorted financial-sector lobbyists was filling london ’s best hotels and providing a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trading .
the danger now is that iran , or its proxies in the middle east , will have misread the situation and cross a red line . that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to dial up their disruptive activities in a number of theaters , not least by seizing a british armed offensives in the strait of hormuz in the strait of hormuz ( they have also noticed that the uk is europe ’s weak link ) . iran has been suspicious of europe ’s slow progress in launching “ instex , ” a bartering mechanism intended to authorize some kind of deal-making between europe and iran despite american sanctions . iran has already raised its aggressiveness in israel that is supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( has already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . but those in iran who claim that they have received nothing from europe are simply wrong .
furthermore , america ’s accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , its structured financing method , and its byzantine contract valuations . in addition , america ’s accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , its structured funding methods , and its byzantine contract valuations . in the end , managers , rather than a distant shareholders , control access to well-paying appointments and lucrative consulting work . so executives are only quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risks , and portrays a smooth track record of profit growth . to be sure , american corporate and other securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-not only insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example , or excessive reliance on peer review for auditors and so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage and investment-banking activities separate .
that implies potentially enormous economic , ecological , and social losses to both the developed and developing world . countries in asia – true , countries throughout the developing world – simply are not exporting their plentiful and economically significant genetic resources . the biological diversity convention ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , has promised an international regime governing access and levies sharing ( arabs ) of genetic resources . but brokering the arabs ’ regime has proved elusive , with diminishing access to any international deal making , and thereby diminishing benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . this would enable researchers and companies to access the developing world ’s genetic treasures in return for some proportion of the gains made by their products they then developed .
and they will work to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic governance . the other brics , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than recent historical averages , while still being mature structurally . they will gradually reorient their growth models toward making them more sustainable – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability to take off , but not derailing . the third group , led by the european commission , will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries , complicating regional policy choices . the benefits of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than in any other few years , although they will continue to accrue disproportionately to those already better off .
a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with the american economy , europeans have struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . once again , european companies have borne the costs of such actions . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching national-security and geopolitical implications , for it promises not just to improve a mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the growth of the internet of things and digitalization entire economies . unless the eu can power a future of an international currency to rival the dollar , europe ’s economies will remain highly vulnerable to us extraterritoriality .
in assessing clinton ’s ’s ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers make a lot of surveys showing by blinder and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are not more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under the democrats than they are under republican presidents , and thus are unprepared to explain the performance differential . so what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? we know even less about the factors responsible for the other 44 % of the us performance gaps . but it is impossible to know the extent to which those factors were influenced by an american president ’s own policies . blinder and watson suggest that they show five factors that reveal oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence , for example , may together explain a 56 % growth gap .
another possibility is for the american people to invite the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this was proposed late in the bush administration to forge ties with certain asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – along with others across the pacific . in this age of crisis and unemployment , the american public may well question freer trade . but , with myanmar included , this may become too difficult politically , and asean ’s sub-grouping may become more realistic . this might be built up to include other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with the eventual goal of a us-led apec-wide agreement to achieve an impressive achievement if realized by late 2011 , when obama will be ’s turn to play host to all leaders .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , far less prepared to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . rather than taking advantage of the opportunity provided by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slid into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . this is particularly true of those policymaking entities that possess much better tools for addressing advanced economies ’ underlying growth and employment challenges . in the united states , for its fifth consecutive year in a row , the us congress has so far passed a full-fledged budget , let alone dealt with an economy based on growth and employment headwinds . as a result , they run the risks that aggravating potential challenges .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector employees – people who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure – receive the kind of fixed-benefit retirement plan that greet ryan ’s retirement , according to the pension rights center . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’s lead , connecting policymakers with an individual politician . like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , policymakers who make bad decisions should face clawbacks , in the form of a reduced-income pension system that curtails pensions . pensions are a long-term commitment by the state , and , ultimately , as a result of the taxpayer , an individual politician . if politicians receive pensions starting at an age 50 because of ryan , retirement benefits could realistically be reaped out of the 40-plus several years .
palestinian authority prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , governs by decree , keeps a parliament inactive , and quibble the opposition . pa prime minister salam fayyad , such as his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keeps a parliament inactive , and grameen of opposition . throughout history , of course , national liberation movements have been forced to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to obtain the promised land . this was true of zionism , of the italian risorgimento , and most recently of catholics in northern ireland . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will .
the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be but another of these errors . for example , murat kurnaz , a german-born turkish man , has been held at guantánamo for four years before being released last august . nevertheless , until then , the cia has been making mistakes by then . seized by the cia in macedonia , it had been taken into afghanistan , and interrogated for only five months before being released without charge . the leader of the guantánamo task force , restored admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended the harsh treatment of his international prisoners , saying , “ everybody ’re all terrorists ; they ’re all enemy combatants . ”
a new balance will be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role for the european parliament and for national parliaments . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister , though formally denied that the title , this is what everyone will call him – with a strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and in the council . a high price had already to be paid for this agreement . eu citizens would be covered by legally binding fundamental rights , with majority decisions becoming the general norm . an rotating presidency would replace it with an elected council president .
van steenis has warns that the “ swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding certain groups in society . ” the most interesting part of the “ future of finance ” concern how payment means change . cash is at a decline in many countries , though the rate differs markedly from where it was in the eu to place . cash usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is now plummeting at rates of 10 % a year in the united kingdom , while it barely changes in germany . it is up to me to hope that a us government might respond that question .
a second reason for avoiding imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for starters , assuming the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , an imf loan would entail substituting its “ no-defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” debt to “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders because the fund is used mainly to service outstanding bonds . because a significant number of lucky bondholders would be bailed out to the detriment of those that became junior to imf debt , and remained highly exposed to a likely restructuring . as a result , a pool of lucky bondholders would be bailed out to the detriment of those that became junior to imf debt , the larger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore debt sustainability . for the same reason , imf loans may constitute a burdensome legacy from market-based perspective .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistent current-account surpluses – a market and interbank short-term nominal interest rates – is soaring . indeed , the issue , at the root of the problem is structural in nature . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s wide money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times that of the united states , with its m2/gdp ratio of roughly 200 % , compared to around 80 % in the united states . so , how has this happened , and what should policymakers do about it ? in fact , china ’s monetary stock of currency is relatively plentiful .
by not yet embracing an integrated approach , the gcc institutions are at risk of falling further behind the global norm . worldwide , public-health policies are shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and governance sciences , and the humanities . while institutions like weill cornell cornell in qatar and the gulf progress research and technology university in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs targeting these kinds of health challenges , much more needs to be done . another dilemma is that the region ’s education and training programs have no incentive to provide sufficient systemic thinking . technology and new public-health approaches are important ; but they will be ineffective unless they are tailored to meet local people ’s true needs .
i still believe that juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that a victorious republican president would be france ’s next president . in his book age and profiles , he resembles the french versions of hillary clinton , more practiced at the exercise than in conquest of power . more telling , of course , will be the party primaries in november . and , while juppé remains well ahead of opinion polls so far , the french could reject his happy version of french identity , in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker party .
some tough political choices lie ahead : which pieces of a framework program are to go ahead and that terminated ? and , perhaps most important , what is the optimum trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more effectively for a common european future ? under the banner of “ streamlining ” , ” ” the “ “ how ” is gravitating toward the outsourcing of most execution to eu agencies , one hopes , with more flexibility to fulfill their specific missions . this demands a smoothly working and far more effective interface among eu agencies and the european commission , which retains total control over them at large scale , as does a deep revision of eu-wide financial regulatory arrangements and their oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . how can an innovation that has never been exclusively technological , but social as well as social fairness , is achieved and fully exploited ?
indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the ruinous blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already well positioned to capitalize on their coming war with iraq . despair and alienation have taken hold of a younger generation of arabs representing more than 50 % of the region ’s population . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , war will most likely play into the hands of al qaeda , giving it a new lease on life . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the ruinous blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to join al qaeda-style holy war cells . political repression and silencing arab public opinion should worry that america and its arab allies will not reassure them , for that there is no way to channel their interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully .
a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian military aggression than it is today . yet nord stream 2 would make those troubles inevitable . by committing to purchase more russian gas , rather than necessity , and for a longer period of time , the eu would help fund russia of its military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . and the kremlin kept on belarus on belarus would be even tighter should yamal gore be shut down .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . san francisco – indeed , this seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , notwithstanding the threat ( or promise ) of competitive competition from cheaper generic substitutes . but there really is no such mystery . just as pharmaceutical companies pay players throughout their health-care system to favor their more expensive drugs over lower-priced alternatives . and those that should act as watchdogs for patients feel comfortable doing along .
after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and inefficient governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacity . although the arab world has traditionally been a conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens are under the age of 35 , with young people suffering the highest unemployment rates in most countries . but while there are many reasons to blame foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will solve nothing . disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future , in which an overwhelming majority of its citizens feel disenfranchised . this represents not only massive waste of resources ; it also carries serious , long-term sociopolitical problems .
almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are female . as a survivor of polio program , i simply can not fathom the possibility that with complete eradication in our sights , we may allow polio to return . since unicef began emphasizing hiring women ’s hiring for its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has actually increased dramatically . to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle , it is vital to address the obstacles – whether physical security , social constraints , or low paying – that they confront . let us not forget that the risks these women take to protect all of them from an epidemic that took a crushing toll on global health .
the american establishment has no effective regulatory framework for internet platforms and lacks the political will to create one . a large minority of citizens in the developed world are unequipped to deal with this threat ; the digital false realities , in which current beliefs become more rigid and extremes . in the us , roughly one-third of the adult population has become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . western democracies are unprepared to handle this threat . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept former google design ethicist tristan harris calling “ brain hacking . ”
america ’s plan for war crimes trials covers violations committed before the current conflicts begin . when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush famously said that he expects them to be treated humanely . “ if not , ” the president warned , “ people who mistreat prisoners will be treated like war criminals . ” american officials have recently released a list of iraqis risking trial for past crimes . president bush ’s remarks pushed home the importance of rigid adherence to the geneva conventions , as well as the question of how war crimes trials may convene in postwar iraq , and who will conduct them .
second , today ’s algorithms are becoming very good at pattern recognition , when they are provided with large amounts of data sets , finding objects in youtube videos , or detecting credit card fraud – but they are far less efficient with unorthodox circumstances that do not suit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or over-the-counter ( plain ) . third , the latest systems can not explain what they have done , or why they are recommending a particular course of action . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications – you need a skilled person , with its or her experience , intuition , and social consciousness . when interpretability is important , for example , in many medical applications – what you need , for example , is trained humans in a decision-making loop . third , the latest systems can not explain what they have done , or why they are recommending a particular course of action .
president putin 's moves to strengthen an integrated system of power are thus logical and sound . indeed , the second important area of progress has been a reform of russia 's confederation : the establishment of federal districts and reform of the federation council . such changes are controversial , but a federation whose laws are not being watched by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which laws ’ observance depends on a whim of local administrators simply can not exist . as a result , today there is a realistic , if imperfectly , federation . the country has advanced the road of fiscal federalism : providing all manner of value-added tax on the federal budget , and income tax to regions , thus makes for a sensible system of distributing budgetary resources among the tiers of authority .
some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the security cabinet , have quick to express concern over an arms deal . for israel , this is more than a little cares . after all , it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support may help to drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . but , given trump ’s inability to take genuine stand on any of the core areas of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status – the idea that he is playing some well-thought-out long games on the israel-palestine conflict appears farfetched . within israel , too , many are fearful that trump seems merely to seek to appease israel , with its rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as the mainstay of american interest in the region .
in fact , throughout the northwest , housing prices are showing signs of accelerating upward progress . and the weaknesses in the london housing market appear not to have spread elsewhere . to be sure , one thing that the us government should be absolutely certain is that the us government should pursue policies to engage with an northern powerhouse , and perhaps with the “ midlands engine of midlands , ” just as it should . to keep this trend in mind , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . empowering housing markets to the north could do wonders to reverse the troubling regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades .
new delhi – for some time now , transnational corporations ( mncs ) have sided with the global economy ’s rules to minimize their tax liability , or even eliminate it entirely . and , for some time now , the independent commission on international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for unitary taxation of us mncs . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the idea of a unitary tax has gained traction . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the notion of a unitary tax has gained traction . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the third step must be an expanded research and development program into new and more effective approaches to controlling disease . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and with drug money given to the world ’s poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , arv therapies can spread arv therapies to even very poor countries at an acceptable price . this includes : funding to halt maternal aids transmission ; funds to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and with good program design ; even funds for anti-retrovirals . recent breakthroughs in basic science give hope that a vaccine could emerge within a decade if a billion dollars in r & d funds are mobilized both to the public and private sectors . the most promising response for the long term is a conservation vaccine .
yet the violence against women may be hard to detect . in fact , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – over their lifetime . clearly , a global shift is needed in a context of gender-related attitudes and norms . even those who recognize may choose to ignore it , believe that it is none of their business , or too widespread , to make a difference , or because they are too preoccupied to engage . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and gender-– policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while preventing violence , including by punishing some of its perpetrators .
and , when citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence in order to curb it . this month , new mayors took office without an electoral panel ( cse ) made public 100 % of the popular vote , the open-ended violation of nicaraguan electoral laws . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce and political parties , the cse refused to permit the recalculation of the ballot-or scrutiny by impartial observers . as a result , the fsln government proclaimed it a protest movement in 109 of its 153 municipalities . although electoral fraud within managua was the most widely documented subject of courts , the same modus operandi involved throughout the country was to influence more than 40 municipalities .
moving from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the russian parliament ’s seat ) is nothing more than a technicality . putin would be “ czar , ” whatever office is formally in its own right . even though putin has found a way to retain power without amending his constitution , a possibility that endlessly speculated about russia ’s dwindling democrats band – the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly apparent . what will make this work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . the fact is that presidential democracy has only strengthened russia ’s geopolitical culture ’s inclination to favor “ “ a strong hand ” rulers , ” whereas a parliamentary system would permit a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power .
morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after winning an international claim on his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . the question now is whether it will triumph by the brotherhood , in both the streets , as well as in egypt ’s ’s ’s new constitution ( which they have largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west should withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? that would be a mistake , at least superficially , that way . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also go back with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election , and calling for an answer within a few months . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also go back with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election , and calling for an answer within a few months .
the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not nearly enough . in many circles , it had to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in cases of personal lifestyles . and it was alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians such as orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . the phrase “ liberalism , ” ” ” ” however , does not mean the same thing for all people . in fact , liberalism – defending minorities and individual civil liberties – had to be reinforced .
in essence , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy , but all european boats . in reality , the probability is that such reform will sink all boats , giving populists a chance to do so . in that case , which variety of populist parties will seize the opportunity ? despite talk of a “ green economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . the economist dani rodrik places the appeal of populism .
the first shock was intensified by globalization , bringing in a lot of new low-wage competition . for example , germany ’s precision instruments and fiber optic equipment lost to a competitive fringe once japan entered the eu . the second shock was eu integration , which included north and southern enlargements . while globalization was a phased process , it gained momentum as china decided to play the game . china is ten times the size of japan , and japan was not easy to cope with either scenario .
america ’s worsening fiscal position leads to a strong dollar , just as america ’s worsening fiscal position after reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago did . while countries may pride themselves on running a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for their exports and a good deal for imports . in a dynamic economy , if jobs disappear into one sector , new jobs are being created in another . it is the government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment is obvious . it is the primary responsibility of the government to maintain full employment .
to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is at the root of all its externalities . defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculus . yet , on the great issues of war , peace , and the balance of power , europeans seem trapped between a insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and a sense of insecurity among individual countries regarding how to define and secure their national interests . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling of sovereignty are the only ways in which to settle many of the great questions – from climate change , nuclear proliferation – that bedevil our world . on the contrary , the world ’s rising powers , brazil , china , india , and russia , appear to be insisting not only on the primacy of their own national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action , on the other hand .
a pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but he received just 46 % of the vote . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , rather than waging war . without full control of either the proof or the blame , the icty lacked from the outset , its legitimacy and authority of “ victors ’ justice ” ” ” ” ” lacked full control of either . the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but he received just 46 % of the vote . despite his budget-busting campaign promises , it seems , was far too far for serbia to cooperate with the icty by assisting in going over mladic ( karadzic is presumably not in serbia ) , who would surely testify against milosevic .
for starters , the global financial meltdown and ensuing recession laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undercutting the popular and ideological underpinnings of the neoliberal view that markets do best to shape societal outcomes . furthermore , china – the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement – has signaled a policy shift toward pursuit of better social and ecological outcomes , in line with more moderate gdp gains . this shift is linked to a third , broader trend : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed for an environmentally sound project , particularly toward climate change . to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risks of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption have surged . but the new approach also rests on the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance between bio-mangues/economy .
johannesburg – my country has liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has essentially gone away from my right even to write the word . as a part of my job , i have often edit educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention ( stem ) . as a doctor in south africa , i have provided abortion services for more than a decade , but in less than a dozen years before trump ’s inauguration , an ngo i was providing abortion services for more than a decade . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration – an ngo i worked for halted distribution of a reproductive-health guide , because it included information in south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to an abortion . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving information on questions related to sexual and reproductive health issues , including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws .
how should it approach china ’s creation not just facts on the ground , but in the ground itself , in the south china sea ? is there an alternative to sending ground troops back across the middle east ? at a time when the us is already facing a daunting set of problems , its election campaign is going warm . with russia ’s annexation of crimea already standing forever ? indeed , how can america respond firmly to russian aggression without forging a long-term project to bring it closer to the west ?
the us has disrupted its command structure , undermined its propaganda , doled out half of its senior leadership , squeezed its funding , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel . the us has disrupted its command structure , undermined its propaganda , doled out half of its senior leadership , squeezed its funding , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 active members . since september , the us has retaken more than 700 square miles of territory . we have deprived the us group of uses and the resulting revenues – some 200 oil and gas facilities .
academic and scholarly exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing american soft power . when the berlin wall came down in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers rather than artillery had brought it down . alas , bush failed to learn that lesson . many of these scholars became rampant proponents of human rights and liberalization within the ussr . while some outspoken american euroskeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb operatives were stealing america ’s technologies , they largely failed to note that visitors umed singapore out political ideas alongside scientific secrets .
today , the emergence of chinese-style and indian-style modernity is the mentally destabilizing japan . after all , if china is america ’s principal economic partner in asia , and if india has been america ’s principal diplomatic partner , then what is left for japan ? its aging population sees resignedly as a new , younger asia becomes just as vital to america ’s , as europe was during the cold war . george w bush ’s approach was to view india as the “ anti-china , ” ” ” and thus to try to strike a balance between the world ’s “ largest democracy ” against the world ’s “ oldest civilization . ” forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ”
new york – the global recession now taking place is the result not just of a financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the future direction of the global economy . consumers are pulling back from their homes and automobile purchases , not only because they have dealt with their wealth effects with declining share prices and housing values , but also because they can not know where to turn . will they be able to put food on the table following this year ’s terrifying spike in food prices ? decisions about business investment at work are even starker . should they risk buying a new car , when gasoline prices might soar again ?
in fact , no trace of the polish authority has remained so . the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions has made poland an ideal venue for german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews , and three million ethnic poles – have been murdered . this is one reason why poland is right to insist that camps not to be called “ polish extermination camps ” ” ” ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) . everywhere else in a german-backed europe , the nazis have had to address , sometimes in extreme form , complicated ways , with local governments , if only for tactical reasons . they have been german-speaking camps in occupied poland .
india ’s leading suppliers to the world ’s telecoms firms are found in china , where huawei has now head to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , finishing second to japanese its panasonic state in 2009 . india ’s embraer revolutionized the airplane of airplane production with a kind of business model that others imitate . at its credit , india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors . in the telecommunications sector , there is now a half-dozen emerging-market multinationals in the global top ten .
meanwhile , the bulk of its obligations are social security and medicare , which can not be bloated away . yet , with high rates of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households could still be doing worse – with higher food and fuel prices slashing into disposable income . meanwhile , the bulk of its obligations are social security ( medicare and medicaid ) , which can not be bloated away . even the american government , with a debt overhang of around four years , would not be likely to benefit much from an inflationary surprise unless it was actually huge . what would help is if their nominal disposable income rose relative to their ( fixed ) debt-service costs .
of course , with turkey in the term at the g-20 summit barely beginning , xi probably has not settled on concrete priorities . but some of the potential areas of concern are already apparent . though china ’s ’s ’s ’s leadership will , it is hoped , lack the drama of 2009 , chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly make it an impression . unless he fails to miss an opportunity to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade deal while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he surely will not pass a chance to ensure that the g-20 agenda serves china ’s interests . elements of the current g20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure .
new york – after the french revolution of 1789 , the deputies in the national assembly , who supported revolutionary bargains sat on the left , while those who opposed them , hankered after the old order of the monarchy and the church congregated on the right . to their credit , emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither right nor the left . marine le pen , whose national front is linked to the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who has served as minister of a socialist government , is a leftist . hence the political system , which is left ” and the “ right . ” many commentators on the french presidential election have pointed out that these classes no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , anywhere else .
we should toast past successes : some form of financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trading moves to exchanges and set houses from murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst subprime mortgage practices would be restricted . but the likely failures are equally noteworthy : the new law will have to curb the practices that undermine the entire global economy ; and reorient the financial system toward its proper mission of managing risk ; allocating capital ; providing credit ( especially for small – and medium-size private enterprises ) ; and operating an efficient payment system . as a result , it will probably happen long before an assessment of the success of whatever law is produced by the american people ’s congress ultimately enacts . but the likely failures are just as noteworthy : the new law will have to curb the practices that undermine the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system toward its proper mission of managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially for small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating an efficient payment system . moreover , it looks likely to prove to be curbed by outrageous fees charged for every debit transaction that goes less than a tax that goes beyond some public purpose but to fill the banks ’ coffers .
but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are highly likeminded , while germany , owing to its own history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any sort . to be sure , a majority of french and germans identify themselves as europeans , in contrast to the uk ’s citizens , who identify as a british mp , or even , like english , irish , scottish , or welsh . in fact , the uk is , by and large , closer to nato than france is . to be sure , there are plenty of differences between britain and france with respect to how it engages with the united states and nato . it is also why the german and french proponents of the eu have generally focused on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british have often struck at the european project itself .
the long-term implications of the agreement stand in sharp contrast to both obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to the republicans ’ counter-proposal . by agreeing to reduce current tax rates for just over two years , the tax package was reducing the projected national debt at the end of this decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s budget ) by some $ 2 trillion , or close to 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . though the new tax law is widely described as a form of fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids large-scale , immediate fiscal contraction . the house republicans have proposed continued tax rates of 2010 permanently for any number of taxpayers . since then , obama has wanted to continue raising the tax rate permanently for all taxpayers , with annual incomes exceeding $ 250,000 .
responding to the crisis will be a hastening of a movement toward on-line purchases , in which case physical location is no longer an inembedded component of shopping decisions . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years . expenditures on automobiles to cease , until the government-stimulus programs in many countries were revived . but schemes like public subsidies for scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars have simply led many to reschedule their purchases . the crisis has also exposed the scale of america ’s massive over-capacity in america ’s retail market , with estimates suggesting that at least one-fifth of all american shopping malls will be forced out .
indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries prior to the birth of christ . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue gives the ruler the general . possessing the people confers on it a territory . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of the government by a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . indeed , confucianism became the chinese state ’s official ideology two centuries away from christ .
the most realistic scenario today is a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas and hezbollah . but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , cutting off hezbollah ’s lebanese arms-control lines , while enabling lebanon ’s vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . a damascene conversion is not only possible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the only way to extricate syria from the fateful iranian embrace is to chart it in a regional grand scheme for peace . alas , precisely because of its isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s unilateralist nature , syrians are unlikely to fulfill america ’s status for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances , and letting their own marriage below terror .
for much of thailand ’s long-stalled economic boom of two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s own metropolitan areas , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented the rural majority . thailand ’s factory , too , became increasingly estranged from its urban elite . while rural citizens had more than enough to eat , their economic opportunities and increased labor mobility constrained the shoddy education systems and dogged media that handshakes them soap operas and official messages . recognizing this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , thaksin upending the elite consensus that had long prevailed . thailand recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , upending the elite consensus that had long prevailed .
some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who attended a conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders who forcibly annexed syria for supporting the revolution . the us delegates – allied with a number of sunni opposition members – have denounced assad , declaring their unwavering support for a united , democratic country that would offer full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or ethnic hindus . if the alawites and sunnis living abroad can stand united against the assad regime , so could their counterparts in syria . by setting an example of coexistence , they can mitigate the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . “ depriving ” of the regime of a sectarian card is crucial for its ouster , ” a conference ’s organizing committee noted .
in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owns an equal share , and each contributed $ 10 billion to initial subscribed capital . china announced its plans for the aiib soon after the ndb ’s founding articles of agreement were signed in march 2014 . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital initiative available to date , despite being designated as “ founding members ” ( china ) . although lavish shareholding has not been china ’s preferred route , it has not enforced matters .
and it is particularly bizarre that even as us policy toward mexico has vastly increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-type character becoming president in the us , officials provide positive publicity to a government caricature of disastrous governance . well , in both cases , the american people should have said no : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a wealthy country taking its money out of a impoverished neighbor with millions of suffering is hardly appealing . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took the principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that has attracted widespread bipartisan support . rather than bashing latin america , the us needs a steady , principled friend that will not be swayed by corrupt bribes of any kind . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially because lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hands .
a similar solution should be found for the european constitution . europeans can not preaching cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism , and they can take a firm stand for it . europe , after all , has been committed to democracy globally . but , in a european way of thinking , it needs democracy to spread pacifically by persuasion , not by force of arms . indeed , the political imperative is as great as being constitutional .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , we have traveled to tijuana to meet with juan at a request from his attorney general .
the implications of trump ’s speech extend beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . at any rate , the potential for us-india security cooperation in the region seems to have discussed only in trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s speech , the two governments have already . the address also sharpened the contours – already limned down during his may visit to saudi arabia , and his july visit to poland – of what might be called the trump doctrine . trump values what india has already done but is urging it to do even more , using its vast earnings from exports to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also hinted that the us will work with india to form indo-pacific security zones .
it orchestrated the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , reconstruction of japan , and more . under this order , the rest of the world has closed much of the vast technological , educational , and infrastructural gap with america . now , china has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , although still only about one-fourth the size of its per capita terms . yet , as prominent economists suggest , global growth has been “ convergent , ” meaning that the poorer nations have grabbed up . the share of the global economy represented by the american economy has shrunk by about one-half ( to around 16 % currently ) .
a focus on corporate social responsibility might help to make certain that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while demands for energy – and resource-efficiency requirements could help to safeguard sustainability . indeed , as a report by the international panel on sustainable-development financing highlights , the spectrum of financing for future international development frameworks needs to be broader than ever before . of course , achieving that goal , not to mention the sdgs , will be expensive , deriving an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year from now . given budget pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and can not be counted on to fill that needs . and , at the same time , the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and incentives for innovation are critical .
to be sure , most taxes entail a heavy “ excess burden ” : the costs are considerably larger than the value of the revenues being raised due to potential taxpayer myriad attempts at evaders and avoidance . in fact , shifts to more energy-efficient ways to transportation ease congestion . a tax on oil does not , on the other hand , impose a excess burden . for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes that were then reallocated to oil users , these policies would be unambiguously good . in fact , a tax on oil , on the other hand , does not impose excess burden .
you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy and nutritional bars , vitamin a – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , factory soy foods , and practically anything with claims of health . so-called functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those in which producers add omega-3 oils , man-made sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , cholesterol reducers , cholesterol reducers , soy , or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to allow them to take advantage of “ qualified ” health claims made by our food and drug administration ( fda ) . like many people , i came to think that small , innovative companies have dominated , functioning foods . if you routinely acquire such foods , you are one of our products ( medical lifestyles and sustainability ) , so will our health food industry , which has a cherished demographic base . lesser-evil sales and occupational nurture have done well in recent years , bringing in roughly $ 85 billion in american sales in 2004 .
the common market was defended at the outset in terms of the gains that would follow from enhanced trade . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , was similar . in particular , the two countries whose troubles drove a great deal of the need for twentieth-century european integration , germany and italy , were culturally and politically highly varied . all of this recalls some powerful arguments advanced in the nineteenth century concerning national integration and unification . unity was supposed to be the cornerstones of prosperity .
metrics are an indispensable feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and must be an integral feature of any government program . according to a recent study , impact investing in america would not exist without support and partnerships with the federal government via grants , credit , and guarantees . several existing federal programs , like the commonwealth reinvestment act , and small-scale commercial investment corporations , are supporting the growth of impact investing funds . recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . in a sib , government contracts with autonomous contractors to achieve measurable social purpose ( like reducing recidivism among adolescents ) , private impact investors finance upfront costs , and government promises to return to them when a program ’s targets are met .
china has been keen to highlight its role as one of its key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and , increasingly , to western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . their presence indicates that , behind the parade of martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader and far more complex narrative about china ’s wartime experiences is emerging . foreign assistance , including a significant american role in wartime china , did not have a role to play in this narrative . but ignorance in the west regarding china ’s wartime sacrifices story – 14 million dead , and of its major contribution in holding down more than a half-million japanese soldiers – also reflected the partisan history of a war taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only plausible narrative was that the ccp led the resistance against japan .
yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high – but only in current dollars . in real terms , the s & p 500 is still 20 % well below its january 2000 peak . likewise , while the case-shiller index for america ’s home prices is now running at 10.2 % in the year ending march 2013 , it remains still less than 28 % below its 2006 peak . but are these newfound wealth effects really all ? wealth creation matters , but not as long as it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
in fact , the socialists had begun to distinguishing not from what they were , but from whomever , touting the line , the ndp neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet , that distinction may not have been as powerful as the socialists may have believed it was . after all , it was also their center-left voters who had macron ’s election . and they recognized what was to be campaigning for : each policy that he implemented so far was covered with his campaign platform . the left has been deeply divided on virtually all issues , including europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and more – all of which make it extremely difficult to identify what exactly represents “ leftist ” policies today .
there is an even less risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah has recently pledged over $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the brutal crackdown on first-round protests in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by any means necessary . syria , ’s syrian president bashar al-assad , has more domestic support than the recent media coverage of the country ’s south suggests . the very few saudi demonstrations seem to have been populated almost entirely by the minority shia , who find little compassion among majority sunnis , and by foreign-built workers petitioning for higher wages and improved working conditions . nor does iran ’s government appear to be facing any real danger .
mexico city – the four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s great wars . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not fully in the same category as central america ’s other three . yet there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; in contrast to the us , however , successive governments have constructed institutions capable of supporting reasonable levels of territorial control and domestic security . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption – and all but forgotten by the international community .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 arab spring . in the region , ten governments have already had debt-to-gdp ratios well over 75 % . as growth has slowed , the share of public expenditures has decreased , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment has barely started , the old rent-distributing model has become unaffordable , and populists have turned against regimes that seem unable or unwilling to mount a compelling reformist effort . no longer content with simply displacing aging autocrats , the protesters are also targeting the key elements of deep state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is shedding this carefully calibrated system in disarray . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense in order to fulfill their nato obligations – a valid demand – but also to keep progressing to channel that spending toward us-made arms systems . us president donald trump ’s administration seems to be wringing this carefully calibrated system into disarray . far from displaying its capacity for choice , as the title of its book the treaty ’s art might reveal , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world .
a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk entails looking systematically at stock and inflows of the national account to capture all dangers , including risk-taking within the us financial system and the real economy , as well as broader risk issues . as we saw in the recent crisis , private risk taking and debt are socialized when crises occur . using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a still-minimal quarterly basis , we have identified a number of countries where there is substantial risk to investors – as well as opportunities . so , even as public deficits and debt remain low before the crisis , they may well be rising sharply once one erupts . governments that looked fiscally sound , suddenly appear insolvent .
in the last few years , i have been deeply engaged in the policy aspects of this large city of ’s economic revival . i chaired the economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and subsequently served as the chair of the urban growth commission , which advocated for a “ northern powerhouse , ” a program designed to link the british north ’s cities to a cohesive economic unit . subsequently , i briefly joined david cameron as the government , in order to help implement early stages of a northern powerhouse . abedi ’s barbaric act , on the other hand , has killed at least 22 people , with many of them children . i have never participated in a concert at the manchester arena administration , but this appears to be a great venue for the city .
nile delta – some 60 kilometers ( 560 miles ) north of cairo ’s tahrir square operation – rolling out the 2011 egyptian uprising that a secondary-school student called “ the prison . ” one teacher in the sleepy nile delta village morbidly quips that it doubles as a morgue . a deformed box of cement packaged with dilapidated classrooms , a school is pockled with age and neglect . “ we never saw a revolution here , ” he said a few months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing the job . “ a lot of hope for us has now been dead … it has been killed . ”
yet the often-stagnant fiscal plan approved by the board for the 2017-2026 period – which will inevitably form the basis of debt-restructuring debates – appears to ignore this circularity . in fact , the five flaws of the board ’s ’s fiscal plan stand out . the plan itself recognizes that it ’s acceptance implies another “ lost decade ” ” of economic activity and undermines israel ’s debt sustainability , thereby perpetuating a crisis on which all parties favor an end . unfortunately , the already-deep projected decline in real gnp is wildly optimistic , as it relies on a number of implausible and/or controversial assumptions . first , projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp will decline as a result of each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for the gnp projections that the contraction of one dollar into the primary fiscal deficit would be associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp .
such scrutiny is detrimental to the evolution of open societies . i propose that open societies form an alliance with a dual purpose : fostering both the evolution of open societies in individual countries and the evolution of a globally open society . the first involves development aid ; the second , strengthening of international institutions such as the international central bank and the world development agency . such an alliance requires the collaboration of not just governments , but also of civil society . such an alliance requires the cooperation of countries not only of governments , but also of civil society .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . accra , planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just spurred a backlash from the federal title x family-planning program to support low-income women . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title x clinics from referring to abortion patients – will cost planned parenthood about $ 60 million annually . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title x clinics , from referring abortion patients to abortion – will cost planned parenthood roughly $ 60 million annually .
in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought to be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given these failings , it is not surprising that employment policies have often been very small relative to the magnitude of the problem . for example , employment policies have done very little to reduce the intense regional-imbalances and discrimination within the regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after world war ii . still , in kosovo , unemployment has stood at just 45 % six years since its war ended .
we will engrave in our hearts the past , when japan ended up becoming a challenger to the international order . upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold core values like freedom , democracy , and human rights as untrammeled values , and by working hand over to our country that share such values hoist a flag of “ proactive contribution to peace , ” ” ” ” and contribute to global peace and prosperity all more than ever before . we will strengthen aid to developing countries , and we are at the forefront of the world toward further prosperity . japan will make even stronger efforts to combat poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence , as well as to provide opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to everyone in the world . prosperity is the very foundation upon which our peace is most responsible .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participation . while they represent only 20 % of the saudi population , they comprise the majority -75 % – the oil-rich region ’s population . in bahrain , the shia who comprise 75 % of the population have been keen on reforms initiated by king haider al-khalifah . this systematic neutering of shia rule in saudi arabia is legitimated by the wahhabi religious establishment , and supported by numerous fatwas denounced to them as heresy . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered discrimination in the occupations : the de facto government positions , the national diplomatic corps , and , most significantly , the oil industry , where they have excluded since the 1980s .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving produce , such as anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs . in the process , aids deaths fell by more than 50 % from their peak , and malaria deaths have decreased by roughly 50 % since the turn of the millennium . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund had built a massive supply chain to deliver goods . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new funding to resume this work . replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost , owing to the sheer number of lives that it will help to save .
depression can be cured , but only by giving the patient a positive vision for the future . the right-centrist parties , the union of center-right forces , and yabloko – all do have that vision , and the people know it . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest people have been swinging their hands on policy . that is a sort of economic depression , which may be the result . the higher the education , it appears , is the lesser voter participation : among those who never vote , the top 1 % of college-educated people are nearly twice as high as those from people without a higher education .
only the explicit , up-front approval of the reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – demands . this applies to the actions perpetrated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances like nato . this last point has been at the heart of the trouble in iraq . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operation is perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” powers , particularly at this latter-day phase , change a central perception of such interventions , both in and outside the arab world .
when we estimated how much of the variation among individuals could be attributable to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . that left up to about 95 % of the variation to explain the effects of culture and individual choices . but the genes are just one of a multitude of factors influencing height and age deaths early in birth . second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were shorter and first gave birth when younger children had multiple lives . personal choices , nutrition , income levels , education , and religious affiliation all entering the mix .
sofia – at a time when the ongoing european debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s ’s ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect europe ’s leaders to reinforce as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they have allowed one of the jewels of post-world war ii european integration – the european court of human rights ( echr ) – to come under threat , just as they can . unlike the brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its national democratic deficit , strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people have sought its help , far more than can expect from a more reasoned decision . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions per year . )
as security expert sarah chayes argues in the fight against corruption , the volume of essays that the british government publish to accompany the summit , corruption is structured today . in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may appear to serve vital purposes . one deploys armies to fight terrorism ; another provides critical energy supply , or access to raw materials . to establish the best approach under any specific circumstances , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which implies improved intelligence collection and data . inevitably , leaders must contend with difficult tradeoffs , beginning in the past .
voluntarily or not , some may seek recourse to high inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic savings into financing of state and keeping bond rates low ( what economists refer to as financial repression ) – or eventually outright debt restructuring . all three unorthodox remedies were used during previous periods of debt crises . they can be treated as alternative forms of taxation , however implicit rather than explicit . eventually , they are different methods of forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulating debt . eventually , they are different methods for forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulating debt .
george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called “ vision thing in the past . ” then , after the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , advanced a far more ambitious vision . one , however , has to be wary of grand visions . when pressed by his staff to speak out more boldly and expansively , he replied , “ “ “ ” “ ” just not of me . at times , leaders think that vision may solve most of their problems , but flawed visions – or overly ambitious – can do harm .
in the us , wind-power costs have fallen by two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale solar power costs have decreased by an estimated 85 % . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers do not join trump in backing away from his own climate pledges . furthermore , according to a recent united states department of energy ’s energy report , us jobs in wind and solar industries grew by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , respectively , in 2016 alone . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of us states like california , which took the initiative in promoting climate-minded technologies . and the private sector has come around to viewing renewables as a potentially profitable enterprise .
china , ’s potentially powerful , domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers , may help it to avoid a hard landing . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the financial sector and local governments could undermine efforts to safeguard growth . already , spillover effects from trade and financial transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 has averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a marked slowdown , and india ’s gdp growth rate is projected to decline to around 6 % this year . moreover , if conditions in the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could become more acute . to be sure , monetary policy has already been aggressively loosened , and could employ additional fiscal stimulus .
using historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration in their per capita gdp after their per capita gdp had reached roughly $ 11,000 under purchasing-power-parity terms , relative to the constant american dollar prices , or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 american dollar prices . in the five years after japan ’s collapse , for example , its economy has grown at an average annual rate of just 3.6 % . in south korea , growth had dropped to 4.8 % . in hong kong , it has slowed to 5.8 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold only sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth rate over the next five years will fall well below 7 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold only sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth rate will fall to 3.6 % .
contrary to the trump administration , obama and his advisers believed that there was much going to be gained from acknowledging difficult political truths , even as doing so points to radical change of course . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ the new beginning , ” is that it included the public admission of the united states ’ own history missteps in the region .
at the same time , some of the best people serving the ecb – or who has served in the past – are from small countries . the last thing the ecb needs is german chancellor gerhard schroeder ’s political crony assuming mr. issing ’s key post . preventing small countries – like the rest of the big ones – from competing for particular vacant seats reduces ecb governing ’s potential competency . giving large countries permanent executive seats also makes it easy for their politicians to take over the ecb through a process of appointments . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet of the executive in a system of open competition than under current arrangements .
true , excessive reliance on wage deflation is likely to have a negative effect on productivity . but labor costs have been rising much more rapidly in the southern periphery , resulting in differential costs rising , which can not possibly be countered by a devaluation of the kind as long as a monetary union endures . as long as this intra-continental divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be solved entirely , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign-debt and commercial banks . in this context , above-trend productivity growth whether through technological progress , improved resource allocation , or productive investment – is as important a variable for southern economies as it is for wage restraint – is as important . skilled labor is likely to emigrate faster , and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of widespread social tension – do not precisely invest , innovation , or labor mobility .
likewise , an established or state church is the church of england , created nearly 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that a catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage at all . indeed , the key elements of modern british identity all seem to belong to england , rather than to the composite entity . former prime minister john major has called the uk “ the earth of long snowy on cricket grounds , warm beer , invincible green suburb , swindlers , and swimming pools , fillers , and pools of fillers , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids bicycling to holy communion through the morning fog ’ … ” of course , it is not to say that no identity is to claim . an institution called the english heritage curates the past , from stonehenge ’s prehistoric monuments to the old land homes that are celebrated through tv costume dramas .
increased military cooperation with the us is particularly important right now , given america ’s worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness . in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any increased exposure to military risks – has never endeared abe to american diplomats and military strategists , just as he has secured both open – and sometimes tacit approval from japan ’s ’s ’s asian neighbors . that stance makes the alliance a far more partnership of equals than it has been for the past six decades . in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe has undertook – thereby enabling japan ’s self-defense forces to arm us-led allies , and help extend american and other allies to meeting their commitments to ensure asia ’s peaceful means was long overdue . both abe and obama focus on creating a durable structure of peace for all of asia , abe has been eager for japan to play a more active role in this regard and with the backing of its allies .
indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s own health problems are public knowledge . the matter of occupying the presidency during that transition is certainly not inconsequential . with khamenei having served as president , before rising to iran ’s supreme political and religious leadership positions , it is easy to see that the conservative candidate , raisi , was elected , could well have become khamenei ’s successor . iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and , just as the long leader of a citizenry eager to bet on voter turnout clearly showed , iranians know this . khamenei himself recently confessed that the probability that his designated successor should be named in the near term was “ no low . ”
furthermore , north korea ’s ’s nuclear evolution , its economic fragility , and uncertainties regarding its very future as a sovereign are creating profound anxieties among its neighbors . yet , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation to overcome them . indeed , the recent asean trilateral summit , china , south korea , and japan is the may 4 such a meeting to take place , alongside the meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits . unfortunately , leaders from china , south korea , and japan have yet to produce any major breakthrough on the most sensitive security challenges that divide them . but this lack of quick achievement does not make such efforts futile .
china has made a conscious strategic decision to alter its growth strategy . but here , too , the past should not be viewed as prologue . for over 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating their saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . and , of course , hard-core middle-class american consumers have benefited immensely from low-cost chinese imports , walmart effect , enabling them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressures on jobs and real incomes . a seismic shift goes hand in hand , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well follow a tipping point .
ten-year us treasury bonds currently yield just 2.5 % . a ten-year yield to more than 4 % would lower the value of such bonds substantially . other long-term bonds – both government bonds and corporate bonds – would suffer similar declines . reaching yield has also narrowed the credit spreads between high-yield credit and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds . with the current level of inflation of over 2 % and markets anticipating a similar level of inflation over the longer run ( as measured by a five-year five-year-forward rate of inflation ) , the yield on ten-year treasury bonds should exceed 4 % .
moreover , because the financial institutions ’ assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , the shortage exacerbated by their need to deleverage . without that confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity will be constrained . declining employment lowers wages and pay incomes lowers the share of wages . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness now goes beyond reduced credit supply . because raising capital is hard and expensive , less lending will deleverage .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products , and to engage in speculation around the world , may have served its firms well , even as it imposes large costs on others . today , the risk is that the new keynesian doctrines will be used and abused in order to serve some of the same interests at the same time . in fact , have those who have pushed for deregulation ten years ago really learned the lessons of the past ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms succeed ? has a change of heart been reached ?
wage restraint and productivity gains improved competitiveness , thereby undermining exports . a variety of factors have been driving this growth . in short , the credibility that ireland acquired through its resolute fiscal policies and reform helped rebuild confidence , ease a return to growth , and thus to fiscal consolidation . of course , the precise policy approach undertaken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere . and now that lower oil prices and a 6 % - of-gdp drop in unemployment are hampering consumption growth , reviving investment in other sectors .
but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of an eventual write-down are in fact adding to superior outcomes . because such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , there is a need for substantial official muscle and peer pressure . thus , under this model , and despite initial pressure , bondholders ’ behavior could be regarded as a truly voluntary trigger . a third component is suasion on bondholders to achieve maximum participation , obtain binding pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders . and , while credit rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as a default , talmudic sages showing us why a more thoughtful classification is required .
that observation is as true of the individual as it concerns the eu , whether the eu is a neighborhood , a city , a state , or a province , or a country . consequently , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very sound within a narrow set of skills or product lines , and exchanging it for millions of other things that we have not been so clue as to how to or to make . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-compliant system ; money just tracing the value of gifts that we provide one another . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-compliant system ; money just tracing the value of gifts that we provide for another . as a result , we ended up doing remarkably few things and buying everything else from the others .
yet these investments have brought , of course , no economic trickle down . another consortium has begun to build the multibillion-dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgian to turkey and the west . moreover , georgian utilities ’ reward to provide a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil were not us dollars , but a policy of diplomatic insurance – that is , western , especially the us , concerns about the pipelines ’ safety . people here survive on a few dollars a day . oil and gas pipelines are the transport conduits , not real employers .
during the same three year , wall street prices and europe skyrocketed by 60 % or more . even in hong kong , where share prices recently hit new highs , they are just 10 % above their level in early 1994 . this picture bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches or read at business newspapers . japanese equities are worth half their 1990 ’s prices , up from just 0.7 % today . policymakers warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ”
strong central institutions , accountable to a directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . austerity should be relaxed , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small and medium-size firms in over-indebted countries . moreover , in the shorter term , there is the single market for the single market to be extended to services , and free-trade arrangements should be enforced either multilaterally or bilaterally , through major trading partners like the united states . austerity should be kept abreast , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small , medium-size firms . strong banking systems should be unified , in order to separate private losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution institutions , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme forming the core of a european banking union .
indeed , china has plenty to show for itself in its recent history . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn between wars internal and external , is about to become the world ’s second most powerful economy . china , which just celebrate with the martial pomp of sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the people ’s republic of china , marks out of one of the most intriguing cases of the nation ’s evincing “ short sightedness ” toward its past . china ’s insolent prosperity , even though it is far from divided equally , with china ’s relative political stability , even as the opening regime remains firmly constrained , is undeniable and deserving of respect . just consider the massive access to education of its vast rural population in sharp contrast to its “ democratic rival ” india .
all things considered , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates on the basis of domestic economic conditions . perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in crisis countries . by permitting exchange-rate flexibility , such an approach would also allow the central bank to pre-empt the twin perils that emerge in a currency union : undervaluation that generates inflationary pressure and overpricing which demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) . perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in crisis . the interest-rate spread that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland might have been minimized by issuing sterling debt , thereby protecting investors from additional devaluations of devaluation risk .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , services expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russia ’s output . indeed , corruption blights reform throughout the postcommunist world . while the transition was bound to be painful , russia ’s anti-corruption epidemic has caused more policy damage than the economic side effects of reform . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering has enabled the kremlin to say that the “ mafia ” is grabbing the gains from economic change . the government , and thus economic reform will pay for that carelessness at the polls .
while he does not sacrifice major moral doctrines for power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . he is possible of his image as the right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who wants to restore his pre-wwii moniker , who would like to restore his pre-wwii montenegro and the orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life . he crams his mediocrities party , selects mainly of bad advisers and votes for the rare right can not be heard . he is neither corrupt nor war-crimes organizations , not aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor likely to bend the bill for personal power . many people voted for him by default , both now and when he defeated miloševic in 2000 .
the yellow vests must choose : democratic re-invention or an updated version of national socialist leagues ; a remedying will be recorrected or an urge to crush . or the yellow vests ’ yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasures of being seen on television . they will allow themselves to become intoxicated in their sights of luminaries and experts of france ’s d’en haut ( elite france ) seeming to eat from their own hands and hang onto their every word . but if the yellow vests allow the passionate hate to triumph over genuine fraternity and choose wrecking over reforming it , they will bring about only chaos , not improvement , a lives of more sometimes humble and vulnerable . they stumbles from the very darkest sides of political history and end in the dustbin of history at a time when they can rub elbows with those other nods , early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry .
a former turkish diplomat in iran described the business climate in stark terms : deal is as if the iranians favor a lose/lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with their foreign partners . others suggest that iran ’s near-non-existent national banking system is the culprit . according to iranian-turkish business council vice president , “ it is exceedingly complicated to do business in iran . ” what possible lesson can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failure in iran ? still , some blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” supposedly out of fear that iran and turkey could rapidly become overly powerful .
moreover , we must invest in the research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that are fit for low resource environments . smart , collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to build effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions are in urgent need . moreover , we must invest in the research and development of low-cost diabetes cures and diagnostic tools that fit low resource environments . smart , collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together fund effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions are urgently needed . this mismatch prompted the lancet medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the hold of the “ social justice ” question of our time .
indeed , measuring its success according to compliance ignores the purpose : encouraging – and facilitating – reform , by informing officials about their costs and benefits . southern orange , new jersey – if an international organization made good recommendations for improving a country ’s economy ; and the country adopted fewer than half of them , it might seem that the organization would fail . but an international organization should be judged on the quality of the information and advice that it provides , not on whether governments will listen . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases economic surveys of each of its 34 member countries , including , most recently , a list of past recommendations and implementation status . in its 2010 survey of the united states , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to introducing a cap-and-trade scheme .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan – which will require it to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout this process – lest either his leader feel ignored or undermined . moreover , he will need to keep all of the alternatives on the table , despite the fact that military options are becoming less tenable in the context of inter-korean dialogue . then again , convincing trump to engage in self-reflection might prove to be the hardest challenge yet . most important , he will need , at least , to get the north korean regime to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal and to agree to a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in the next summit . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to question whether this is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran , which he has described has “ the worst deal ever . ”
germany ’s next government , one hopes , will contain pro-european politicians with fresh thinking and a willingness to push for european-level reforms , perhaps along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be the driving force shaping germany ’s eu role in europe for years to come . another way of looking at the german election outcome , then , is as an opportunity for a fresh start . an end to the cdu/csu-spd “ grand coalition ” might entail an end to political stagnation not only in germany , but on the european level as well . germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now in place , and , with the sdp determined not to join the government , the likeliest outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s flag ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens .
elimination of fuel subsidies caused riots , and widespread strikes against a transition government that provided a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to re-assert military control . it would have taken six long years under rapacious military rule before nigeria received another chance in a democracy . for the past year , nigeria has celebrated a remarkable escape from dictatorship . after the country ’s brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler , general rashid abacha , who was abruptly cut dead – the army sullivan was agreement on another national election . the timing could not have been worse .
these barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . rather than sidestepping the topics of sexual and reproductive health – as well as gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of women ’s health , and their impact on communities . reducing maternal mortality , for example , may not be enough to provide antenatal attention , safe delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care .
brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , says that modernizing an armed force is intrinsically linked to national development . it thus emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry . to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must be supported by a robust defense policy . likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made in disregard of the nuclear nonproliferation regime . brazil ’s ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity is increasing its stakes in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access or control , natural-resource assets .
a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to its domestic political and social values , and on the style and substance of its foreign policies . large expatriate communities in the us – 2.4 million chinese , and 1.7 million indians – have raised their interest in their home countries , among others . yao ming , a china national basketball association ’s houston rockets , may become another michelle jordan , with china being set to host the 2008 summer olympics . but the real promise by both china and india lies in the future . moreover , transnational connectivity is already very close , given that western high-tech companies increasingly employ bangalore and shanghai affiliates to deliver real-time funding .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to withhold full realization of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians were fighting and dying for war in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that shrewd , exercise , and intimidation may win western acquiescence in his subjugation to ukraine , as well as the theft of crimea . delays , intended to show the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , have , instead , merely flailing putin ’s security interests – a classic divide-and-rule strategy , served chilled . delaying , intended to show the eu ’s determination to force the association agreement to work , eu has merely thwarted putin ’s security interests – a classic divide-and-rule strategy , served chilled . europe can not afford to take in that fact , as it has in the past . europe can not afford to take part in this fact .
for example , we should ask whether this makes sense to repatriate competences and financial transfers , from brussels to westminster , or whether some powers and eu funding should be decentralized to regions and peoples . where possible , regional funds and policymaking powers – which include ecological regulation and oversight of agricultural workers , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegating to appropriate regional institutions , such as the scottish parliament , welsh and northern irish assemblies , urban mayors , and local institutions . to this end , it is critical to re-negotiate the constitution to integrate regional interest and recognize that the uk is a supranational state . such radical change – and , in line with the scale of the crisis , it must be radical – will require a degree of nation-wide debate that could be conducted via a peoples ’ constitutional convention . that convention should begin by examining brexit ’s impact on regions .
as a result , the us no longer seems to be in any position to set the world ’s agenda . though the vast majority of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example . the eu can possibly not possibly assume the place of the american people as a world leader . but it can set an example , both within and outside of its own borders . the prospect of eu membership was the most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies .
like his old soviet masters , he conflates the athletic glories with military fame . this is why he has personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; the unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth , considering that russia has won the greatest medals . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics , which form the kernel of a doping scandal . ) to be sure , putin regards the olympics , and , specifically , medals – to be very significant . this is not to say that his athletic glory substitutes for military fame .
yet that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly tough time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly a historic comical friend and ally . perhaps true pragmatism on display in the north koreans ’ case is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and an internal fixation on it . the rise of china is but one of the more studied developments of its own . chinese leaders ’ longstanding reluctance to engage in international sanctions is often blamed on their belief in judging actions by whether or not they actually work . it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been much more spectacular than that of any north korean rocket .
washington , dc – the steep drop in the price of crude oil since late june has overwhelmed headlines worldwide , producing many conflicting explanations . yet others are also suspicious of a tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states-led united states , among others , that is weakening political rivals like russia and iran . some attribute the windfall to falling global growth expectations . others focus on america ’s expanding oil and gas production . regardless of the alleged reason for the fall in prices – most likely to occur in some combination of these factors – the consequences are the same .
even with improved security , it takes more than five years to bring iraqi oil at full capacity on stream . at nearly $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain stubbornly high , even though a safe-haven global economy implies that world demand is low . so far , the situation in the global oil situation is particularly intriguing . the previously fashionable view that an american seizure of iraqi oil resources would break opec and transmit plummeting oil prices turned out to be nonsense . with the american economy now recovering strongly , the price of oil should remain high , or rising even further , over the foreseeable future .
after all , if markets were truly convinced that the ecb would refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would run out of participating countries , at the first sign that conditionality is out of reach . as with its predecessor , the securities markets program , the omt program is legally and largely questionable : it violates the ecb , but not the letter , introduced by the european union ’s treaty ’s no-bailout clause ; its promises of matching treatment with private creditors have no precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers that leave the ecb heavily vulnerable to political backlash , witness german press support to ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . but omts also fit well with a vast body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , eu policymakers must focus on extinguishing fires , rather than negotiating over who owns the water , and what its costs should be . the omt program will cause lending conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred over the past three years . reversal of that process will probably not occur until the three key components of the banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are within a tangible limit . as with its predecessor , the securities markets ’ programs , the omt program are legally and largely questionable : it violates the very spirit , but not the letter ; nonetheless , the treaty of the european union ’s treaty ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment of equal treatment with private creditors still has virtually no precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal
for starters , bipartisan premium support proposals , with seniors receiving subsidies to purchase private health insurance , should go . likewise , two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have raised constructive reform ideas as well . so far , the only american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing reforms of social security and medicare , which avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and pushing heavier debt burdens on future generations . premium support can significantly reduce medicare expenditures , because it establishes a framework for more efficient benefits spending , propelled by competition , and innovations in care and coverage . in order to allow individuals to prepare to cover associated deductibles and copayments , health-saving accounts – funds that are not covered by personal income tax at a time of deposit – can be expanded and can be used tax-free at any time to cover qualified medical expenditures – should be expanded and strengthened .
silvio berlusconi , who becomes the european union ’s president on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risk , and whose business bets paid off large ones . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that italy ’s monopoly on tv would not survive , and jump-started what became italy ’s main privately owned media group . but you do not win in tv and the real-estate business without the correct political connections . hence , in the real-estate development that began . in the 1960s , he was only the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city in which people made a move toward work , would become a modern metropolises surrounded by american-style suburbs .
beijing – financial repression – the government ’s policies that are creating an environment of low or negative real interest rates – with the goal of generating cheap financing for public expenditure – has long been a hallmark of chinese economic policy . early this year , the national council of china ( pboc ) , china ’s cabinet , made cutbacks in financing costs for companies , particularly small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top priority . but , with funding costs for businesses trending up , this has finally begun to change . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in prudent monetary loosening , which includes freeing up more funding for lending by providing banks that allocate a certain share of their total loan portfolios to small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . likewise , through its “ pledged supplementary lending ” program , the pboc has begun lending directly to banks that pledge to leverage social-housing construction funds .
countries with the greatest cause of concern to russia – ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania – are not supposed to be offered nato membership . moreover , russia today is far too weak to be threatened by these crises , as the russian military ’s catastrophic misadventure in chechnya illustrates . yet nato expansion , in fact , is not likely to force russian foreign policy to be even more peaceful ever . russian democrats with a tremendous stake in a peaceful future are adamant that extending alliance membership to central europe would isolate their countries from europe ; strengthen russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad ; and , by appearing to threat russia , provide a rallying point for reasserting russian military power . one day , russia will become a stronger force , and if an expanding nato to central europe now would discourage the revival of imperial foreign policies then ; this would act as a powerful argument in its favor .
israel ’s leaders seem intent on getting time tactically , by resisting the soft power of us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china are playing an increasingly important role . that world , however , will presume a little gesture toward the palestinians , whom israelis regard as so profoundly divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement appears to be possible at all . israel may be “ “ “ “ “ “ europe ” , ” ” ” and its principal ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders must start thinking about how their country can thrive in a post-western world . that world , too , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will become diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel will eventually depend solely on its comparative merits in the eyes of cynical , realistic actors who judge it solely on the basis of their own national interests .
the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” typically come later , if and when the president rolled out his tax cuts and ratcheting up the beast that smoke and mirrors do not trump reality . now , the audience is told that losing tax revenue and escalating the budget deficit was the plan all along . this trick never really works , to be sure , either . performer explains that the deficit is all the congressional ’s error for not cutting spending , and that the only way to harden the beast is to pile up the budget deficit , because “ congress ” can not spend the money it does n’t have . nor can it find sufficient spending cuts ( the charm asterisk left the sleeve ) ; acceleration in gdp is nowhere to be seen ( a rosy scenario has vanished ) ; and tax revenue has not grown ( no rabbit in the offing ) .
in one of the darkest hours of the roman empire ’s demise , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to reestablish a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism . march 21 is the first day of spring , and we would like to believe that the coming european elections herald a new spring for the european project . march 21 is also the anniversary of benedict ’s demise , europe ’s patron saint . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our futures projects : and that symbol is the european flag . for this reason , in january one of us launched the notion that , beginning on march 21 , depicting a banner for houses , factories , and offices .
this fits into a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim hindus are immediately categorized as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic manner , with violent assaults perpetrated in the name of other ideologies ’ use to present an isolated incident . in the united states , right-wing extremists have conducted far more attacks than islamists . according to the 2018 global terrorism index , the death toll from terrorist attacks in norway , of which i am one of the handful of fortunate survivors , has been elevated steadily since march 2014 . the attack in christchurch , new york , was more or less inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist attacks in norway , of which i am one of only a handful of relatively lucky survivors . yet , for such incidents , nothing is isolated .
the fruit of the franco-german partnership has included the european single currency , the euro . after its birth in 1999 , the german government , by now relocating from bonn to berlin , contented itself once again with a lower european profile . that modest and no assuming role played firmly in the past , though german strength has yet to be matched by imagination . the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project , is a fading memory , because germany has yet to generate a comparably robust strategy for revitalizing the eu ’s prospects and popularity . indisputably , the strongest and most dependable of the eu ’s 28 member countries , it lacks the vision of where beleaguered europe should go .
in fact , to meet the challenge of reforming china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china must spur its consumption . while the rest of the world is fighting to raise savings , china , with its savings rate of just over 40 % , is struggling to pull its people to consume more . china has been engaged in what could be called “ vendor finance , ” a provision to finance america ’s huge fiscal and trade deficits with the us , allowing americans to buy more goods than they sell . but this is a strange arrangement : a relatively poor country receives the funding of america ’s war on iraq , along with a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people , while vast needs at home reveal the ample room to expand both consumption and investment . providing better social services ( public provision of free public provision of free and resource-intensive goods ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings .
selling five-rupee sachets of shampoo to a poor consumers is viewed as clever marketing , but lending two lines of 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at high-interest rates is being viewed as exploitative . yet one is evidently less socially acceptable than another . yet one is evidently less socially acceptable than another . both activities , after all , are funded by investors seeking returns on their capital , and motivated more by profit than by compassion . the high pay earned through a cosmetics or moving manufacturer attracts little attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor appears ill-advised , if not immoral .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence ( ai ) and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines consistent or out-performing humans in a fast-growing array of tasks – including some requiring sophisticated cognitive abilities and advanced degrees . that process has outpaced cultural expectations ; not surprisingly , its possible adverse impact on both quantity and quality of employment has raised grave concern . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might have thought that trade remains the primary reason for manufacturing-job losses in the united states . but , among economists , the consensus view is that roughly 80 % of the losses in american manufacturing jobs over the past three decades were a result of labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade approaching a distant second . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that workers ’ possible technological displacement is “ not ” even on [ a us administration ’s ] radar screen .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan ostensibly could do no wrong in economists ’ eyes . the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed to have been that mechanization , computerization , and de-monopolization would continue . they saw a clear break-up in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic across a wide range of high-tech precision and mass-produced tradable manufacturing industries in the production of tradable goods . and they saw an economy that at the same time , since the reconstruction began after world war ii , has vastly outperformed european economies ’ expectations for growth . and they saw an economy that , since reconstruction began after world war ii , has vastly outperformed the expected growth in european economies .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best-known writers , argues that the current palestinian-israeli war is actually around two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state within an “ arab palestine ” ; and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent “ name state . ” conversely , israel is fighting two wars as well : a war to defend its right to exist , accept in its own integrity and security in the middle east , and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and jewish settlements “ located there . ” despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased for only a few out of 144 settlements , and more than 7,000 settlers in the gaza strip alone do ; in 16 communities occupying 20 % of an impoverished land already suffer one of the world ’s highest communities . israeli state support for expanding settlements is substantial . there are roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that expand beyond the pre-1967 borders divided jerusalem .
in contrast to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . the ’s ’s ’s reaction was to send spanish government bond rates even higher . like aging wizards , they still try tricks that were used to impress , but that failed to deliver results – or , worse , political strains have become more visible . but all along , they have lost their touch ; indeed , far more important , they have been losing the touch . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy , suffers from a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains have grown more visible .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historic tension , maintaining a stable security balance will not be an easy choice . in the 1990s , when american president bill clinton ’s administration discussed how to respond to china ’s growing economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been inconceivable to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have ensured future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could have called “ integrate and insure . ” but there are levers left for doing so .
trump , for example , has undeniably succeeded in persuading some americans to see themselves as part of something like a white identity movement . but that identity – and the way its adherents frame their own interests – could change once again . interests and identities are shared dynamically , just as politicians make offers of representation , and the public reaction to it . the depiction of the irresistible populist “ wave ” was always misleading . farage , for his part , did not bring about brexit all by himself .
the resulting opportunities for expanding beyond traditional products and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies that offer a wide variety of health-related solutions . though the magnitude of many r & d organizations is bound to be reduced by such types of reform , the complexities of managing and maximizing the impact of this external web of relationships will demand new skills and capabilities over and above those of superb science . developing and rewarding staff leaders who own such skills will be an additional but welcome , questioning . they will facilitate interactions across their network to spur the development of innovative ecosystems . these will include not just prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that foster personalized medicine , together with so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ”
so , in contrast to the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old patterns with better ones , but by expanding its model library , with each integrating light on a different social contingency . the social world differs from the physical world because it is man-made and hence almost infinitely malleable . the point here is not “ “ “ “ “ consensus ” to build a consensus into which the model is right , ” as romer puts it , to figure out which model applies best in a given setting . and doing that will always remain an artificiality , not a form of science , especially as choices must become reality today . economics is not the kind of science in which there could ever be one true model that works best in every matter of contexts .
india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market centered around an easing of outdated and complicated employment laws . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulation is dissuading indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers , and advances in labor-intensive manufacturing – suggesting that india ’s government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . equally important , india ’s workforce – particularly its young people – needs opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously . today , the agricultural sector accounts for only about one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . the legal protections of workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those in most developed countries , as with china , with mandated requirements rising as gdp increases .
equally important , the policy expands the availability of chinese funding , credit and investor insurance . for example , brazil ’s government has promoted the “ investment partnership program ” program ” to coordinate investment in the finance and transport infrastructure industries . taken together , this holistic approach is something new for china . the new policy explicitly encourages chinese enterprises to work with local firms in sectors such as logistics , power , and information systems , in order to foster interactions among business , community , and government leaders . despite significant political insecurity in several countries in latin america , governments in the region seem keen to meet china ’s own reform efforts with changes in its own .
for now , it is far more important to examine trends in the potential determinants of chinese consumption . from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , especially given the accelerated pace of china ’s ’s services-led services sector , one of the keys to a consumer-led rebalancing . in the end , of course , gdp ’s composition will provide a acid test of whether china has succeeded . but a key word here is “ ultimately ” to be reached . it is far too early to expect major shifts in major sources of aggregate demand .
to be sure , the us presidency grants trump substantial power to shape trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility of pursuing protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based american support for a return to closed borders . many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a threat to jobs ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for more protectionism . europe ’s multinational multinational corporations also have large stakes in the chinese economy ; and eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets are now nearly double those of the us . europe , for its part , has been moving in the opposite direction .
at the time that he took the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin , to the tune of $ 19 million . deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , had previously maintained a $ 10 million annual deal with manafort . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known for dealing gently with people who are displease him . deripaska has also been offered to deripaska about what is going on in the trump campaign . after taking up the business , manafort trotted out an ukraine-based employee , “ just like me do we exploit [ that ] means for us to get whole ? ”
kyiv – from snowy kyiv , i have been watching the success revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to be taken pride in their desire for a peacefully overthrow of despotic governments . but , as someone who has waged a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism , for a change of regime is but the first step towards establishing a rule-backed democracy . indeed , as my country , ukraine , is now demonstrating , following revolutionary euphoria booms and the return of normality , democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . ukraine ’s first lesson for the egyptian and tunisian liberal democrats is that the election makes no democracy .
above all , biometrics can safeguard against the theft of our identities by itself . that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , the multimodal , solution ( iris , fingerprint , and face ) affecting more than one billion indians . increasingly , we are using our fingerprints , or the face to mute our smartphones , paying for buying and boards airplanes . nandan nilekani , the chairman of infosys who has abandoned his mission to create such a system , known as aadhaar , credits it with the national government roughly $ 9 billion , by eliminating duplicate and false identities in governmental beneficiary lists . protecting against theft is obvious : what is used is a phone , a car , or a ticket that works only for its legitimate owner ?
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at a time of great alarm over the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for their annual historic summit in london . their collective commitments to spur , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves around the world . many of the problems that have spurred the london summit remain genuine . the un and the world bank are predicting that the direct and indirect effects of an economic meltdown will still be felt in the developing world for an extended moment . anxiety levels may have risen , board rooms and stock markets , but the everyday drama for survival remains , for many people it has deepened , in least-developed villages and street – especially in africa .
were we to observing the look of someone who has intimate knowledge of catastrophes ? roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , and we talked about forces that might stand up to the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first is the sovereign people who poured into the streets of every large city in the country with a consciousness that , in terms of the total votes , it is carried out , not trump , who won an election . were we to observing the look of someone with an intimate knowledge of catastrophes ? or was she just the hottest girl on the party – that of one avid beautiful girl in the party – asked for france , and then held themselves to rest ?
even in that case , however , naming those who are misbehaving toward the important positions of high trust and acclaiming them as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation truly lousy incentives . perhaps , he traveled his own road to damascus , come face-to-face to what he was doing and for whom he was , repented , anxious to repair some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects that he was causing . even in that case , however , naming those who are being misbehaving into the important positions of high-trust , and acclaiming them as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation genuinely lousy incentives . in the end , obama officials assured me that simpson had , indeed , a change of heart ; that he was a clever man , with a sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he could sway reporters and raise them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( although he could not sway genuine legislators ) ; and that he would be a genuine asset at ease of scrutiny on the commission ’s job . perhaps , for his part , simpson was a change of hearts .
nonetheless , the largest tfr declines in recent years have occurred in developing countries . what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average number of people living births per woman above their lifetimes . the tfr ’s for most developed countries now stands well below replacement levels . over the longer term , a people are said to be stable when the tfr raises their replacement rate , a bit above 2.3 for the world as a whole , and somewhat lower , at 2.1 , point for developed countries , their lower infant-mortality rates . the oecd average is at around 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , generate fewer than 1.4 children per woman .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad for business , there are actually three important channels through which regulation can profit an economy . one is the market-creating and market-increasing role illustrated by the gsm standard . the globalizers implied vast economies of scale in the manufacture of handsets and network hardware , so that prices had fallen fast , and their interoperability between networks and across countries was far easier to achieve . by 2004 , there were as many as one billion subscribers of gsm services , for the first time since 2004 . as a result , many regulations played this standard-setting role .
laguna beach – when i reflect on the prospects of the global economy and markets , i am struck by the extent to which the world has collectively placed an enormous bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward a materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; release of policy errors ; release from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain , and bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for contemporary and future generations . there is a second , more uncertain assumption underpinning the bet on more inclusive growth is that the eurozone and japan , which will be able to escape mire of low growth and avoid deflation , that impelling households and firms to postpone purchasing decisions would undermine already fragile economic performance . the first component of bets is stronger and more inclusive global growth – anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with its 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also predicts that china ’s ’s annual gdp growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thereby enabling the risks posed by pockets of excess leverage in an shadow-banking system to keep pace defused gradually , even as an economy ’s growth engines continue to shift from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment .
many feared that hillary clinton impeachment would damage the presidency , but that its main impact on presidential power was the exact opposite . clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment proceedings finally ended . most americans trusted that impeachment had been a mistake . republicans eventually acceded to the democrats that responsibility for the brexit debacle lay with kenneth rogoff , an independent attorney whose investigations of hillary clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier led him to “ lewinsky . ” the two parties authorized an independent attorney general to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump at the time .
most recently , in may 2015 , large numerous traditional labour voters ramping up their own party ’s criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . though establishment parties sharply criticized the eu , most of them failed to lose sight of the advantages of membership . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , both of the main opposition parties backed the eu remain ” campaign , albeit internally split . most recently , in may 2015 , a large number of traditional labour voters deserted their own skins by ramping up criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but that merely drove ideas for alternative policies beyond their control , while causing voters to outright opposition from the eu itself .
to cap it all , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by major economies are fueling instability . and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . to cap italy all of this , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by major economies are fueling instability there . weakening developing-economy incomes further represents a global demand slowdown and a crash of commodities , which , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , have been disastrously disastrous for much of the developing world . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging aid player , ” is now mired in economic and political crises , as is south africa .
for its part , iran appears relatively stable , at least relative to its neighbors . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is far smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make the issue of grave concern . indeed , though pakistan did not experience a nuclear breakout , and the us government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about its future . pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionist jihadi insurgency that has previously attacked military bases suspected of housing nuclear assets . in the event of a regime collapse – a noticeable possibility – it would be difficult to avoid a diversion of its assets or even outright use of its weapons .
but this has not been a us-iran deal ; it has been negotiated by six leading powers and ratified by the un . those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – says , that to use access to the dollar clearing regimes as a foreign-policy tool – would be tantamount to a coordinated action . for the uk , in particular , that may require a willingness to disagree head-on the american foreign policy in ways that some devotees of us “ special relationship ” ” will find an uncomfortable way . as for climate change , the election of a man who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to damage american business is understandably bad news . but global momentum to tackle climate change can and must be sustained .
paradoxically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by the country ’s conservatives and hard-liners , does , in fact , fits the region even better than the current one . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states also dominate authoritarian hard-liners with little interest to de-escalating regional conflicts . likewise , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are ruled by authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalating regional conflicts . this would make the resurgence of reform-oriented leadership exceedingly difficult in iran . to be sure , the most likely scenario involves a combination of both dynamics .
in the immediate aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . in the immediate aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the very health of the country ’s banking system . ten years later , italy is no longer envisioned the land of prosperous banks and happy savers . the implicit pact between banks and savers was broken at the end of 2015 , when four worried local banks were bailed in , bringing the shareholders to the hit . the prolonged recession and economic malaise dented individual savings rates , while banks no longer had the resources to provide peaceful mindanao to many retail investors , whose trust was severely eroded .
many poles are wary of the roman church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy , and have been allergic to its aggressive presence in polish politics . so the man who spoke a very large number of ex-communists , in opposing the church , pose as defenders of the liberal democratic values that they had once persecuted with unremitting zeal . this link takes the dog kwasniewski ’s presidency . kwasniewski ’s strategy has appealed to large numbers from both the young and the middle class , but most of all to the peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s rising economy . it amounts to a sad paradox , indeed , that for many former communists , in opposing the church pose as defenders of the liberal democratic values they once persecuted with unremitting zeal .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist smallholders , but the barriers remain . if donor governments truly want the results , they should take the money out of the hands of 30 or more stand-alone aid bureaucracies and pool it at one or two locations , the most logical being the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these agencies would then get around treatment with several billion dollars worth of aid . “ partnerships ” ” ” ” ” being used by donors may become an expensive end in themselves , merely delaying genuine action . perhaps the main risk is that failed “ aid bureaucracies ” have now put money over one another to try to extract $ 20 billion of their money just getting there through meetings , expert consultations , overhead , messages , and additional meetings .
after all , the brics economies are probably the most important source of future global growth . they represent more than a quarter of the earth ’s gdp , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and nearly half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . at the new delhi summit , brics leaders will discuss creating joint institutions , particularly the common development bank , which can help to mobilize national savings . at their new delhi summit , brics leaders will discuss creating joint institutions , particularly the common development bank ( oecd ) , which may be working to mobilize private-sector savings . currently , the brics are represent a slender , informal bloc .
a key difference in the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters , despite experiencing rapid economic growth ( over 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rate ) . as it stands , the british , like their european counterparts , are feeling overtaxed for spoofing public services that they hold back steadily , angry about that their incomes have been falling over the past five years . on the other hand , they must change the conversation to reassure voters that their economic future is bright . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fearful of competing for jobs – sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . between now and may , cameron has to persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling an increase in real incomes .
it is subject to what milton friedman called the long and variable lags . others , like the united states , did not , and so did unemployment remained at around 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration did not try to boost employment . some countries – china , for example – did , in fact , implement such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits as well . thus , policies aimed at boosting employment by the end of , say , this year required putting in place about a year ago to have the time to reach their full impact .
imposing trade defense against such goods , though legally warranted , seems to be creating challenges for globalized european societies . many argue that these problems are the price to pay for ensuring that companies are not involved in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies . but , even if the measures worked as intended , most trade defense measures are probably not directed against anti-competitive business practices , either . in fact , sectors with higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example , have far higher r & d costs than before a shoe sector , so that these goods on an assembly line in a low-cost country may not be very costly compared to r & d and other intangible costs . for more advanced goods , the eu added ( where the intangible part of what appears in europe ) is rather high .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult . after all , corporations have no conscience ; it is the conscience of those running the company , and , as america ’s recent corporate-governance scandals have made all absolutely explicit , us conscience often takes a backseat to profits . firms are in a far better position than consumers to evaluate the safety of their product ; we all have benefited from knowing that our legal system has given corporations a incentives under which to make attention to the safety of what they are producing . america ’s legal system makes sure that firms that produce badly wrong and especially unsafe product are being held accountable for the consequences . similarly , environmental laws are forcing firms to liable for their toxic wastes , and many countries , including in the us , have enshrined in the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that companies must pay to harm they cause .
the case for acting on the massive scale to fight climate change has been made in europe and even in china . at the same time , we need not look very far toward such a mission . is it because those who object to such debates reject climate-change science ? why has there been so little debate been reached in the us ? or do they deny science because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ?
once again , iranian voters are poised to vote yes or no in the treaty of nice . enlargement is the most-mentioned item on the agenda of europe , and the treaty of nice is its cornerstone . well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and governments that seek to slither around and through some practical difficulties , while deferring to others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important because it includes , among other things , technicalities of voting balances and power-sharing among eu institutions that must be firmly in place before a union can admit the new members . once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no part to the nice treaty .
with the proverbial benefits ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that have occurred over the past half-century were little understood and seldom ( if ever ) predicted by economists . a key point here is not just that economists got so much wrong ; it was that almost no one got things right . with the proverbial “ benefit ( and embarrassment ! ” ) of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that have occurred over the past half-century were little understood and seldom ( if it was ever ) predicted by economists . at a very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies , starting with the alvin cookie myrdal , wrote his asian drama to diagnose the underlying causes of asian poverty and explain why their poverty seemed quiescent . the key point here is not only that economists got so much wrong ; on the contrary , almost nobody got things right .
yet wade postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and later , by a presidential decree to june 2007 . then , just two weeks ago , there were almost daily debates over the possibility of a us presidential election being postponed indefinitely . just a month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who had registered had taken their voting cards last month . a month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who registered had taken their voting cards under threat . but wade now appears to be scheduled for a presidential election , but is fair ?
princeton , bnp – the intersection of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former president larry summers touched one explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively hinted at a genetic explanation for the difficulty that his university has in recruiting female professors in math and science . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for his characterization of dna ’s structure , was in london to advocate for his memoir , avoid tedious and different lessons from a computer life in the sciences . now one of the most eminent scholars of our time blundered far more clumsily into the same minefield , with fairly predictable results . ( he has not indicated that men are on the average more gifted in these fields than women , but that there is some reason for believing that men are more likely than women to find positions at both the top and the lower end of the organ spectrum in those fields – and in harvard , of course , only to appoints people at the extreme above . )
mugabe ’s first visit to china came in 1980 , a period of just six months after independence ; he made 13 more over his tenure ; and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials were all the more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s rule . zimbabwe ’s leaders made japan the most of their visits to the press for trade and military co-operation , and probably engaged directly with private chinese firms . kenyan presidents , on the other hand , traveled to china just five-fold during the same period , most recently in may 2017 . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . mugabe ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . but , for youth refugees , a crisis can also be tracked by an irreversible metric : the passage of time . school-age children form a large share of the world ’s displaced population . of the 17.2 million people who the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protection , roughly half are under the age of 18 , implying that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their own childhood , could lose out , at least temporarily . in the late 2016 arab spring , an estimated 11.6 million refugees were experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : fleeing more than five years , and having no “ immediate ” prospects ” to return .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are of two additional charges : that he should have done more to stem the stock markets bubble of the late 1990 ’s ; and that he should have done more to stem the housing price bubble of the early 2000 ’s . in my view , they are misdemeanors ; in my view , they are misdemeanors . but how serious are these policy-politicians ’ crimes to whom greenspan ’s pleads guilty now ? against them , you must set what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden glove ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his era in the fed . here , greenspan holds his ground , and bush is not guilty .
to good-faith activists who may have been taking up in duplicating the movement 's deputies , i would say only that there are far too many lofty causes under the need for assistance to allow oneself to enlist oneself in the dubious manner . it is a campaign whose instigators have no aims other than discriminate against , de-legitimizing , and vilify israel that , in its mind , has never ceased being able to wearing its yellow star . and it is always better to know that history , if we are to wish to avoid repeating its own ugliest scenes . the truth is that history is nothing more than a sinister caricature of the antitotalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving women and girls enslaved by boko haram ; defending middle eastern ’s imperiled christian and arab democrats ; and devoting for a mere peace between israelis and palestinians .
prior to that , stem cells – which can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaged tissue – could be taken solely by early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy . in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that nearly any cell in its body contains total dna code , has enabled it to create a tadpole through cloning an adult frog . it is only too soon to discount genetics , but not to mention the science of the “ epigenetics ” ” ” study – study of mechanisms to turn gene turning genes on and off , thereby altering the manner of cellular develops , without an altering of genetic code – is gaining traction . indeed , the 2012 nobel prizes awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop through reprogramming dna and cells without altering their genetic constructions . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka have discovered a way to trick complex adult cells in a mice into a regreting to an immature nation forming stem cell cells
but we may not wait for the root causes of displacement – that is , the failure of state failure and civil war – to address it . claims could be prioritized and done regularly , with refugees able to arrive in europe healthy and ready to work or study . the financial cost of marrying its waters and rescuing those adrift is exorbitant . the crisis in the mediterranean can not be managed in piecemeal ways . lost lives is an inexcusable .
harnessing their latecomer advantage , japan ’s average annual growth rate has soared , to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . that is roughly the same gulf that existed between the united states and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan , brazil in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – the four economies that also rank among the world ’s 13 relatively prosperous economies studied by the oecd growth commission . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address diverse structural problems , and develop its economy on the basis of its comparative advantages . according to the worst-case estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 in 1990 , amounting to 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . if the latecomer advantage implied by the income gap between then four nies and americans enabled nies to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % -9.2 % -9.2 % over 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should have accounted for a comparable 8 % average for a 2008-2028 period .
in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went further , committing to “ resolving ” a significant reduction in the current pace of biodiversity loss ” until 2010 . the signatories agreed on re-harmonizing biological diversity , saving species and habitats , and taking advantage of biological resources ( such as forests ) in environmentally sustainable ways . sadly , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknowable , un-championed , and unmet . that neglect is a human tragedy ; it is a fundamental one , and one where it is gone . for a hugely low level of cash outlay , and perhaps none at all on its balance , we could re-conserve nature , thereby safeguarding the basis of our own lives and livelihoods .
it is because netanyahu is driven by a nearly messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel ; that he may have amenable to a fundamental shift in his position on palestine has provided obama make visible headway in his drive to block iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s view , solving the palestinian problem would not have removed the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralizing character that existential threat pave the way for the emergence of a palestinian state . netanyahu also knows that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . just as john kerry , chairman of the american senate ’s foreign affairs select committee , has put it , “ this peace process is not the kind way street ” on which the onus is placed entirely on israel . it remains to be seen whether hard-liners dysfunctional the arab world and powerful non-state agents in its midst , like hamas and hezbollah , respond to how obama expects .
so we decided last year to identify whether the same similarity between moscow and the new york times persists today , or at least whether , in view of the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets became more negative . the us administered a identical questionnaire in both cities in 2015 . just as imf economists predicted , the majority ( 66 % ) of those who responded that question in moscow thought it was unfair . but there came a surprise : the new york times yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . the us presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january .
in the latter version of the eurozone , differential credit risk and eventual bank runs , de-euroization , and default : a common currency is at odds with those of member countries . prognoses for each case are starkly different . like a dysfunctional family , an northern “ advanced ” country ponder whether or not to bail out its southern “ “ emerging ” economies . ” and , indeed , how often does we hear about the sovereign restructurings of local-currency sovereign debt ? in the latter version of the eurozone , differential credit risk and , ultimately , bank runs , de-euroization , and default : a common currency at odds with member countries ’ needs .
during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s county and circuit courts have been filled fell to its lowest point in more than 50 years . republican obstructionism in the senate has also placed other level of the federal judiciary at risk . so the republicans have a good chance of creating a rose conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which may last for decades , especially if they win the us presidency again in 2020 . that majority can erode democratic checks such as campaign-finance limits , which have dealt a devastating blow through a 2010 citizenry united decision . among the 15 years before the election , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” ” ” and thus that any limits on the amount of money corporations could spend on political campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of expression .
mexico city – calderon ’s challenge will not be easy ; in fact , it is not . lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are obviously less vulnerable to the type of populist rule seen by the us in venezuela and bolivia . the underlying stability that mexico ’s post-election crisis has highlighted is also apparent elsewhere in latin america . but they are unlikely to derail his rule outright .
next year will be critical , for it will mark the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . no one wants the eu to go bankrupt owing to its citizens ’ own disaffection . there is still time to react – by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies – but that the time is off limits and the clock is ticking . a new german government , the european parliamentary election , and , next year , a new european commission will emerge . it is here that political leaders should dedicate their to the efforts .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . in sri lanka , where i was prime minister , the challenge now appears to be finding a way to speed up our already steady economic growth . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be a scapegoat of choice , one hopes , sandusky populists and demagogues . one thing is clear : one can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambitions , the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power , or it has – in earlier decades – cheered on the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today , one thing is witnessing in an almost daily manner has fierce political ruptures over tools and policies that have helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty .
here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in . widely unnoticed , iraqi sunni and shia “ centralists ” have managed over the past few months to form a united parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind . more than 100 adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and the others have aligned themselves . against this supra-sectarian platform calls for the central government of iraqi natural-resource control and deferring the looming referendum in order to settle “ sunni ” kurdish positions . change from within the government is also noteworthy . more than 100 adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and the others have joined their ranks .
yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state . as matters are , a case can make the french never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization . accordingly , the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless at politics ; they are simply waiting for a genuine leader . the french still expect to find greater things out of their government than they are from an integrated european or an boundless world . political fervor , it seems , did not unvanished in france and the danton .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and aspirations running at an all-time low . but it may not be as true : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the sheer scale of the problem . the warsaw talks are a staging post along the route for the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that avoids dangerous climate change defined as bringing global warming of more than two degrees celsius . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people out of poverty as more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , including floods , and storms .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a panel of researchers , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks causing irreversible and catastrophic damage to the environment . and , indeed , the g20 has imposed few , if any , social , environmental , or climate-related criteria to reach the “ desire list ” of mega-projects that each member country will submit to its summit in turkey in november . “ our infrastructure choices must be made to ease , rather than to make matters worse . ” each year , the us already consumes around one-and-a-half of the planet ’s worth of resources , ” the authors have made clear . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change radicalization that “ infrastructure development and long-lived products ” locking societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive pathways can be difficult or extremely costly of eventual change .
the fed , for example , has pledged to keep the interest rate low at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % , a move that has undeniably lowered long-term borrowing costs . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance on short-term policy interest rates . perhaps the best-known recent example of the central bank , using forward guidance effectively , was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be fixed without additional data , there are plenty of arguments in its own favor . that pledge alone has stabilized borrowing costs and lowered interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries .
indeed , just the opposite reaction is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . yet , just when the us has adopted a “ bomb ” and loathed ” approach with the serbs during the dénouement of the bosnian war , america must be willing to “ punish them and speak ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating more space for an eventual diplomatic strategy . this would not be an easy process , and could well have met considerable iranian resistance . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran and putting its diplomats onto the ground . but iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of its main interlocutor in talks over its nuclear program , sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and restoring iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communication and close to the 444-day chapter of 1979-1981 .
other countries have followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up across the entire world ’s cricketing world . to keen observers , the ipl had represented more than the league of sports ; it signaled no less than the emergence of a new india . yet anybody watching the ipl might still be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of play , really is an american games deliberately rediscovered by indians . here was a venture that opened new vistas for companies and fired young people ’s imaginations to emulate entrepreneurial crude energies showcasing owners , promoters , players , and supporters . at the ipl , glamour , and over-lay lay an antidote to the hidebound , statist mentality that has produced india ’s historical stagnation .
this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” notion , modernity in romania goes only to a skin deep . at a whim of the nation-state , for example , they may be exonerated from paying taxes or having their posts , and by working making itself unchallengeable by law . for here is the state in which groups , classes , even individuals , are fighting for privileges that are afforded them , not from the talent and labor , but rather from the status of a group where one belongs . nation banks , nation governments endorsed public societies ( the trade unions , for example ) , large state-owned firms ( s & p ) , during romania today than a feudal guilds behaved from medieval europe . at the 20 th century , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) appears more like a " neo-feudal " state than a modern society .
on the other hand , diplomatic means can bring about a release of an israeli soldier and put a stop to firing qassam rockets off from gaza into israel – a daily occurrence that has challenged the credibility of a new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . but the fundamental problem is that , until now , at every historical juncture , palestinians have refused to embrace a de-and-consequently failed nation-building compromise and consequently failed . in 1947 , they rejected the united states-led partition plan , which called on establishments of two states in british palestine . it was this failure that brought hamas to power . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees .
back in their thinking , hard power in the united states is more important than its soft power , and their vision of an america bound to lead ” is largely unchanged . in asia , indonesia may look “ european ” in its obama craze , but that essentially represent an anomaly , easily explainable one of obama ’s brief indonesian overthrow . japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . for them , the american people are above all the strategic counterweight needed to rebalance china . otherwise , and for very different reasons , a growing majority of asian elites are waiting for obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even protesting .
canberra – over the past year , north korea ’s president , kim jong-un , and us president donald trump have been walking on kindergarten unprecedented insults at each other , “ rocket man is absolutely ” on their suicide mission , ” said trump of kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while threatening to trying to cut east asia into a post-atomic wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are to rally around may . but optimism about that turn of events needs to be tempered by cautious realism . in fact , north korea is a nuclear issue from the sheer amount of hell . kim reportedly is willing to denuclearize and eager to discuss directly with trump , whom he has consent .
despite its domestic problems and its loss of global visibility , which accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa remains perceived as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to – say , brazil , india , and nigeria . nepad , a new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent and reasonable norms of economic and political development across the continent , has since come at the heart of this politics . they tend to have proactive and assertive foreign policies and aspiring to more than middle power status and the limited niche-style influence enjoyed by the governments of the governments of canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . such powers seek an efficient and constructive regional role , and perhaps in some cases a global one . south africa seeks a wider and more influential role , reinforced by its manifest standing as a regional hegemon .
indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . it aspires to join the european union and would bring the eu to both three frontiers , even as the us , too , aspires to join a mere day . indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . this year , as the old nato effort to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement began to falter , turkey took the job of a mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and of the syria conflict . immediately after the collapse of the soviet union , turkey proposed the black sea economic cooperation facility .
as a neighboring country , india would face troubling consequences should they return to power in afghanistan , as would an iran that would not sit idly by should sectarian strife has intensified , and the shia have become targets of a resurgent taliban . the west needs to get off before the bloodletting begins again in earnest . indeed , throughout the region , apprehension is rising that when foreign troops leave , afghanistan again starts to descend into civil war , ultimately dragging the taliban back into power . this is why bringing the troops home early ” has become the prime goal of western politicians being engaged in the region . my fear is that we have not seen the latest being struck by al qaeda or the taliban .
furthermore , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ lending to non-financial corporations , just as private customers do today , a fixed-term , saving-investment bank driven by reforming insolvent laws . by contrast , the law that applies to all other firms should apply to banks as much as it does . an economy with no bankruptcies or the rule of law that applies equally to everyone is no market economy . and governments must respond to bank ’ threats by proclaiming their willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly . a market economy must rest on an economic principle of profit and loss .
but the gross flow of capital is from an emerging-market to an emerging market , through the big banks now implicitly backed the state in both america and europe . that was not a good idea , for it led to a massive ( for the time ) debt crisis of 1982 . from the perspective of international investors , the banks that are “ too big to fail ” are the perfect room to park their provision of reserves , just as a sovereign in question remains solvent . but what will these same banks do about the money supply come to pass ? when a similar issued in the 1970s , the so-called recycling of oil surpluses ” happened , the banks at the western financial center extended their loans to latin american , communist poland , and communist romania .
societies in south africa stagger from having lost so many workers to aids as well . but transition plagues more than health crises ; they signify a deeper malaise . the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat to african development . ” when it gives way , illness , despair , and death go rush in . so set aside the fact that these diseases are contagious and could be more easily spread , or the idea that the fortunate bear some of the moral responsibility for the welfare of the impoverished and sick , and simply comes to regard the economic consequences of plagues of transition .
erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , especially the eu . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , this year . but , with turkey having so far failed to meet agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorist legislation , that may not happen – an outcome that has made the coup attempt even more apparent . that is why the coming months , in which turkey and the eu have contentious issues , are so critical . yet , while it would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of eu leaders have made strategic mistakes before .
nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in both the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . so long as the palestinians remain oppressed and denied a nation-state in their own way , conflict is at hand . furthermore , during the recent israeli election campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected , he would prevent the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ controlling the entire region . ” just as netanyahu knows full well , the settlements are a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , autonomous palestinian state . we should take him at his word , the key of the future .
heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender of last resort , it allowed the banking system to collapse . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching . but those reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on the discretionary authority of policymakers , more power to the board , and a larger role for the new fed , all of which enabled the federal reserve system to respond more rapidly and robustly to crises . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender has allowed for the collapse of the banking system . yet it failed to prevent the money supply from contracting in the early stages of the great depression .
pittsburgh – in recent years , the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that the monetary-policy stance of doves , who predicted low inflation in the united states , had gotten the better of “ hawks ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of longer-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , would unleash faster price growth . the report was correct , but it failed to mention why there is so little inflationary monetary growth today . neither the hawks nor the doves ( or anyone else ) expected that . the u.s. federal reserve board has pumped trillions of dollars of reserves from the u.s. , but never had so many reserves that produced so little monetary growth at home . were the doves right or just the fortunate few ?
moreover , cutting the birth rate , which is very high in many lmics , would help reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the cost of maternal and newborn health care and immunization costs . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 infant deaths and 500,000 child deaths every year . by lowering the rates of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the number of unsafe abortions . this is not only good news for mothers , but also good for them . indeed , the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 infant and 500,000 child deaths each year .
king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray rulers , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields a great deal of power . against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking a fight to its enemies . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray rulers , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields a great deal of power . as defense minister , mohammad has pursued a saudi policy of backing anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while overthrowing a pro-iranian “ tribesmen ” in yemen ( at vastly humanitarian expense ) . the saudis also recoil under a barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism .
the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the american public is war-weary and us president donald trump keen to proclaim an end to the longest international conflict in us history before his 2020 presidential election . the american public ’s war-weary and us president donald trump is keen to declare an exit from the longest international conflict in us history , ahead of the 2020 us presidential election . with the us continuing peace talks with the taliban , and the impending containment of america ’s military presence in the country , the us is a clear acknowledgment of that . at the same time , america has achieved many of its initial core objectives .
just five months ago in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference , citing the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 and the united nations . now , we have many experts – some 300 from the public and private sectors of 30 countries – attempting to provide an answer to a simple question : “ what would it take to redouble private-sector infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ” one useful tool at the effort is “ infrascope , ” ” ” a benchmarking index created by the institute of intelligence agencies that assesses emerging-market countries ’ capabilities across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , eastern europe , and former soviet republics in a commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . emerging-market officials will earn accreditation by showing the capacity to apply their knowledge practically . the ebrd seeks to support the use of a critical mass of experts from ten countries ’ public and private sectors in our region , and it seems to me that certification could become just as respected as the qualification was held by a chartered financial analyst or project management institute .
the obama administration staked its reputation for getting israelis and palestinians to agree at least on their security and borders . in the meantime , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , as well as total breaches of international law and the minimum peacekeeping requirements detailed in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the extreme quartet ( the american , the un , the european union , and russia ) . the results are mixed , to be sure , at best . the obama administration has staked its reputation on getting israelis and the palestinians to agree at least on its security and borders . clearly , america ’s efforts , led by the us special envoy george mitchell , have shown that israel ’s current ruling coalition is incapable of doing the minimal requirements for peace .
it became the broad-based emerging-economy crisis of august 1998 , following russia imposing a moratorium on payments by its commercial banks to its foreign creditors . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting whole regions , or even entire classes in emerging economies . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt servicing in august 1982 sparked a china-wide sovereign-debt crisis . the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990 ’s : the crisis began in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht , quickly spreading to other east asian countries . back then , contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly short-term developed-country markets , start withdrawing funding from other countries to cover the losses they incurred in the crises of which they played out .
hence , debt is another side to the evolving dilemma . over the past decade , the joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries ’ initiative and extension , the additional multilateral debt relief initiative , have made significant progress on debt sustainability . as a result , prominent economists , including the international monetary fund ’s chief staff , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming that it has failed to contribute to economic growth . but un research makes it clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress on the best has been modest , not least because average financing for projects has fallen by more than two-thirds .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states subprime elections to america ’s 2012 presidential vote – which , alas , continues to rage in this summer – need to be a frightening depiction of what americans and their leaders have not known for us foreign policy . indeed , ignorance seems like a source of strength for the candidates still running in the race . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some genuine intellectual heft by way of making some useful points on dealing with china , punctuated by brief depicting his inherent mastery of mandarin , some other candidates reacted through derision . to have even known the chinese perspective seemingly disqualifying the huntsman , whom he ended in his candidacy . debate after debate reveals the fact that neither candidate is seeking to challenge president barack obama is particularly keen on the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention crises that dot the international landscape , particularly those that do not involve us troops .
i helped launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . now , the first set of schools has received financing , and the first cohort of the most at-risk populations has been relocated to government schools in the safer regions of the country . a agenda includes building better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations through mobile telecoms , and creating community security groups – comprising consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and youth themselves – to advocate for safe education zones . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations through mobile telecoms , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and youth themselves – to advocate for safe education zones . a fund has so far gathered $ 30 million from businesses , the nigerian government , as well as international donors , to a multi-donor trust fund was established at the un .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) last september – has to address more than future emissions-reduction targets . they must also address the damage to people and livelihoods that climate change is already wreaking havoc . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued strong growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . a one-year cut of the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to lock in that favorable outlook . rising food and energy prices outpaced gains in nominal wages , causing real median weeding weekly earnings to decline in january , while continuing to fall in home prices lowered wealth for most households . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not materialize . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just about 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter of the increase of 4 % .
instead , we are left with customary microeconomic measures to prepare people to vote for unacting algorithmic employment – that is , using big data to match people with jobs that they will need to remain consumers . time and again , we are told , future labor-market entrants should be endowed with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help one go from a single automated workplace to another . in the case of education , the report urges employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ ” “ ” pipelines . this , for example , highlights miami dade college ’s caretargeted training programs in animation and game development , working with companies like pixar animation studios and google . likewise , toyota “ has built up its own highly advanced manufacturing technician program to provide a pathway to student looking for careers in the company . ”
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year , ’s united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger actually rises , as is the number of cases of malaria . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , the consequences of climate change emerge much faster than anticipated .
québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to the growth of its economy . these local plans are now driving the region ’s sustainable development , with knowledge-sharing among the communities laying the foundation for continued progress . the basque country established an program called “ local agenda , ” designed to support the construction of local sustainability plans across the region . in the wake of the program , nearly all basque municipalities adopted such schemes , consisting of over 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , wastewater management , and economic development . south australia , meanwhile , has established the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investments in australia , enabling the expansion of renewables from practically zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in desperation efforts to do something – anything – anything – to defend their economies , they turned toward protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . yet trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they had very little to arrest the downward spiral of both output and prices . as it happened , they did almost nothing to stabilize rickety banking systems . in the 1930s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas the most were those with the least capacity to manage their exchange rate – namely , countries that remained on the gold standard .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by the two sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . the hostage of the impossible coalition and the settlement movement of the palestinian fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu , has been deeply compromised . his palestinian counterparts are hardly at odds with each other in a better manner . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent israeli majorities , nor to rule by democratic means . today , the clique that surround palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter fraud that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement has meant for the palestinians .
this has fueled a growing sense of hopelessness – particularly among men , who manifested in rising non-labor-force participation , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries that experience high and rising economic inequality often face political instability and policy dysfunction . the result is a vicious circle in which governments finds it increasingly difficult to do what is needed . yet government intervention is critical to address the problems facing developed-country workers today , which markets can not address on their own . as policymaking becomes erratic , loses credibility and becomes choked by gridlock , growth suffers , and the chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotham hotspur in london was “ the jewish state , ” while the arsenal was “ iranian . ” and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , remain divided by their religious affiliations , celtic , and bandied protestant . the tribe may be a club , a clan , or a nation-state . but a common race or religion is hardly essential , to say the least . before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was “ the jewish state , ” while the arsenal was “ iran . ”
this flies in the face of the central pledge by governments made when they are signed on to the sdgs : that those countries farthest from the targets would benefit economically from the quickest progress . in a new report to the imf-world spring meetings , saving children documents a glaring gap between health risks , which are heavily skewed toward the poorest children , and gains in public spending are often skewed in the favor of better-off households . this flies in the face of the central pledge by governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries stay farthest out of the targets would benefit the most , in the most severe way . the world bank could help to improve accountability to realize that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to monitor and report on rate hikes at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are narrowed . in the language of the agenda , “ no one ” should be left behind .
kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor when he entered the opera house that today marks the public mourning of his death . my trip occurred in april 2002 , a rather optimistic afterward . my personal memory of north korea , now almost ten years old , is that of a very poor and depressed country . two examples suffice to illustrate the effect : rice prices tripled , while electricity consumption was down by more than two-thirds from two decades ago . pyongyang , the capital , was darfur and quashed , illuminated by a de facto cavalcade taking us from an formal housing to an opera house in order to return only to hide darkness behind the us .
in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paying , back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over a period of three years . female employment rose , and women aged 15 were 5-6 % less likely to marry or give birth over that period . but there are other gender-related goals to be considered . the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to be fully and equal members of society is to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . such large-scale change is not an easy achievement ; on the contrary , if girls are able to stay in school longer and have decent job opportunities available to them once they are graduate , they are likely to marry and bear children later .
though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that , unless north korea makes a deal , it would actually meet libya ’s fate . the “ world ” knows all too well that the us is neither libya nor iraq , which has met miserable fates . vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered the northern korean furious response : “ the us is not hiding its feeling of thuggish behavior toward it . ” choe son hui , a vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear to-nuclear showdown ” if washington actually stuck to “ unlawful and outrageous ” belligerence . the north was not interested in a dialogue targeting some coerced by its unilateral nuclear abandonment .
with the us current-account deficit now above 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is rising fast . after nearly 15 years of unprecedented us growth – punctuated by brief slowdowns in 2000-2001 – the united states has accumulated an enormous stock of its foreign liabilities , equivalent to 25 % of its gdp . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , roughly a third of today ’s levels at current prices , the rest of the world stopped funding it . the result was an abrupt collapse in the value of the us dollar that depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner rather than later must end it .
princeton – the united states has moved from high behind its recent us presidential election to low in singapore ’s political-sex scandal of just one brief week . for many americans , the election brought the welcome and reassuring victory of barack obama , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the us election and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of a larger whole : an america that lives up to its promises . for many americans , the election demonstrated what is best about a country , only to follow up with the sadly familiar process of knocking heroes off its pedestals . the election was a reminder that many americans are a country committed and competent to progress – from moving forward to an ideal vision .
this is one reason why the swiss move has come as a surprise . switzerland , for its part , would have been an important reason for the international monetary fund ’s creation since the crisis began in august 2007 . its first casualty would have been whatever the small scope remains for international policy coordination . the second would have been the world ’s international monetary system , but the international community has managed to protect the financial sector from the financial crisis . in fact , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s creation was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit goal of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies .
likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . a call by björn höcke , the afd ’s national front leader in thuringia , for an 180-degree turn ” since atoning ’ tradition of atoning for the nazi era ’s crimes , afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposes ” germany ’s integration finance minister “ in anatolia , ” repelled the electorate . the second , commonly cited cause of germany ’s incongruence with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at its record-low levels , with gdp having grown by almost 10 % since 2013 . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is revealing why the inequality-focused outrage that have fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany .
cambridge – just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing the punishment of individuals and the online news media for spreading so-called fake news and disinformation , which disregards ” the state . american president donald trump seems to be moving in the same direction . vast fines were imposed on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . his incessantly branding of news journalists as “ liars ” and dogged enemies of the people ” echoes the nazis ’ favored label for news media : the lügenpresse ( the lying press ) . in response , china and turkey – both “ olympic-level jailers ” of journalists – have ramped up their repression in recent years .
bush ’s africa commission , like the un millennium project , has found that africa needs some $ 50 billion per year in aid through 2010 . america ’s fair share of the total now stands at roughly $ 15 billion a year . yet official american aid to africa goes just $ 3 billion a year , and much of that covers the salaries of american consultants , rather than an investment to africa ’s needs . without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa struggles over subsistence levels . bush may think that america is doing much to help overcome these challenges ; but the truth is that american aid is minimal .
north korea is now a conventional state with nuclear weapons , joining the un security council ’s five permanent members , israel , india , and pakistan . how the world reacts to north korea is likely to have an impact on the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . how the world reacts to north korea is likely to affect the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including those of iran . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test have been uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) at united nations security council resolution 1718 , which conceals a test – demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency , and imposes a proliferation of military , political , and economic sanctions . indeed , the danger now is that we may well be fast approaching a tipping point .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be director of the us national commerce council ( itu ) , a new white house political figure to be set on a par with the us national security council and the national economic council . in fact , navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks in china . navarro is also one of america ’s most extreme of the world ’s hawks . the titles of his two most recent books – the death of china ( in 2011 ) and the crouching tiger : what china ’s embrace of militarism implies for the world ( in 2015 ) – speak volumes about his own tabloid-level biases . industrialist roger ross , the us trade secretary-panel , was vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals . ross and navarro were also co-authors of a type of economic-policy position paper published on the trump campaign website that extended any semblance of credibility .
the clash of interests among the eurozone ’s member states is straightforward . eurozone inflation became a de-anchored ” out of monetary-policy decisions . but , because policymakers consistently compromised to an end to qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to sustained stimulus . as a result , the euro-dollar exchange rate thus barely surged ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the ecb then declared victory , withdrawing qe just as the eurozone economy was slowing .
experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works well . even after europe ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster development in postcolonial countries . in many cases , however , those imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced , or governed with only under substance , rather than substance . for centuries , western law has arrived with the help of colonial rulers for centuries . american antitrust law , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , for example , led only six criminal prosecution in thirty years .
as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just how traditional newspaper ’s business model is to get revenue not out of readers but out of advertisers , personal genomics companies see potential profits not from consumers themselves but from compiled databases – supposedly in the form of selling access to them . ” this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more efficient treatments . but other firms have been accused of having more interest in developing “ biobank ” ( suv ) samples and data than in their genetic testing . there is certainly nothing wrong with that , but it seems odd that customers are effectively paying a firm for the privilege of donating their dna database . drug companies and other firms may well be anxious to buy the biobanks on which they can test their products for differential responses in accordance with patients ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ genetic make-up behavior .
even with german-level interest rates under way , greece would need to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp , still quite large , far away from today ’s deficits . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to reject greek bonds as collateral . the question is whether a change of the coupons – possibly coupled with an extension of maturities – would be enough to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . even with german-level interest rates , greece would be forced to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp , still quite large , and far away from today ’s deficits today . european banks are holding greek government debt could keep pretending that they are worth their full value .
venezuela is a case in point . excessive fiscal and monetary expansion has made these economies fragile . it was against this background that “ neoliberal ” reforms , such as the rapid economic opening and financial liberalization that promoted the international monetary fund , made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . the combination of social fragility , deficient institutions , and weak economic fundamentals made it harder for even reform-minded governments to escape the anti-globalization trap of short-termism and to take the groundwork for long-term development . current-account deficits have grown , stemming from frequent foreign-exchange crises .
in france , portugal is so specifically tuned to the consumer tastes that shifts may indicate the changes in a company almost instantaneously . interestingly , many of the purveyors of pornography initially thought that better quality videos made their product appear to have made their product more desirable . nonetheless , high production values seem to have , in fact , been less popular . movies produced for sex-gratification of consumers uncovered cultural norms of constraints , transgression , and otherness . so was a “ casual ” production style , similar to the construction of worn and resentful jeans .
clowns have always played a role in politics . but at the same time , he never aspired to lead a country . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra did , and still did , poorly . neither the clown nor the tycoon is well suited to play a democratic leader . in fact , the question is which way is worse .
one such project , the fuggerei complex in augsburg , germany , still delivers low levels of low-rent welfare housing to this day . during a preceding era of urban-based dynamism , in the early sixth-century bc , wealthy merchant families constructed low-rent homes that were then reallocated to the poor . if they price out , or otherwise exclude those who would be earning less , they would impoverish the very openness that made them attractive back front . so , if they wanted to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , courageous solutions will need to emerge . eventually , cities and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation would provoke an counter-movement .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , in the early twentieth century , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate that , in the face of the dreyfus affair , exiled themselves from the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the proponents of french algeria that , ultimately , understood them . france now must recall these big moments in its republican tradition , holding them up as a model for today ’s leaders . for what will be needed to hold a territory that the republic has almost lost to the fn is the political bravery of some sort , in its short-lived provision . nor has pierre mendès , in the 1950 ’s , hesitated to tell the communists that they wanted their votes to support his government .
but , in the aftermath of the cold war , many predicted that its institutional embodiment would indicate that the north atlantic treaty organization would fade away . it did not , because us bonds were based not just on shared threats , but on shared ideals . that bond remains vital to preserving our own values and to our own security . and we know that it was those landings that generated unique relationships between our two continents that did not . it could not have been any more remote than our craving for freedom might wane .
the chinese have grown so clever in so many areas . they have concocted the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . is it really beyond their own political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet , which recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? i hope that the issue does not derail a chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to show to a world that their country , once reborn , has reemerged as one of the world ’s great leaders . china does itself no favors by remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s while discussing this topic .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . sarajevo – ever since the twin disasters of 2016 – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election victory , there has been widespread anxieties about a “ global wave ” of populism , with hand-wringing over the follies of so-called outright democracy . since then , calls have mounted to empower the “ gatekeepers ” who are a polite way of saying that leaving the unhinged masses should keep edging toward political decision-making as far as possible . in the uk , voters have been tasked with responding to an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , a 2016 republican party primaries passed to irresponsible voters and radical activists .
in fact , you really need to implement the solution – and be willing to change course if it turns out that you did not know quite as closely as you had thought . that is the message of two other recent books , which , together , tell you everything that one needs to know about the financial crisis of 2008 : what caused it , what could be done to avert it from recurrent , and why such things have so far been happening . berkeley , to fix a problem , is not enough . the first book is the shifts and supply shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who starts by cataloguing the big shifts that have set the stage for the economic disaster that continues to shape the world today . his starting point is the tremendous rise of wealth among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and the consequent pressures on people , governments , and corporations to take on increasingly unsustainable debt levels .
the second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . rather than gaining our information directly from institutional gatekeepers , who , despite often-faulty execution , were fundamentally committed to meetings of editorial norms , today we acquire it through peer-to-peer sharing . such peer networks can elevate content based on determinants such as clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or importance . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse no longer relies on a common set of facts . this has its many benefits , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations .
to be sure , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated . robert putnam , america ’s leading scholar ’s declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is the central explanation of the declining fall of “ social capital , ” the trust that binds communities together . in fact , americans are simply having faith in each other less than they did a generation ago . in addition , heavy tv viewing has been aided by social fragmentation . time that used to be spent together in a community is now spent on its own front alone .
in fact , this dangerous and irresponsible action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it would become a peacefully just nation once it grows powerful again . with the collapse of the former soviet communist regime , the american people still enjoy a dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . yet , since the 1980 ’s , the american people have been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of their space efforts . it flatly contradicts the repeated assurances of china ’s leaders that china ’s rise would bring little more than harmony ” and peacekeeping to the international community . lurking behind china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s space ambitions in space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeates then-military-high order circles , whose adversary is unmistakably the united states .
distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed on dna , molecule , and science popularizers join the exultant choir asserting that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities . each time a new kind of all-powerful formulation appears to be , it must undergo a period of abusive requests . illegality and wrongdoers smacked as incontrovertible , science-tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” today it is the turn of molecular genetics , however . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything is said to reside in particular genes .
at a time when both russia and ukraine still have very much on war , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some of russia have flocked to the streets of lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . around its picturesque squares include every cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne the silent witness to the bloodletting that accompanied empires ’ ascent and fall . still , lviv are where one can find hope for a promise of europe . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european slovakia ; but in the next five days they hosts the alpha “ jazz festival ” sponsored by the peoples ’ party of russia . beyond their vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine makes the western strategically important question .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge the full economic impact of president barack obama ’s implemented and proposed policies , but a tentative read indicates a limited , short-lived benefit at big long-term costs . indeed , obama has backpedaled on the details of his $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to the us congress , and not surprisingly , old house barons have since stuffed it with pork and social engineering . a few months later , with just 4 % -6 % of -6 % spending being spent , the federal government is brow-beating state governments – demanding , for example , that california rescind a small pay cut to some unionized workers , or is losing $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . ( intervening in contract relations ex post to enforce union demands is the administration ’s emerging characteristic . ) the administration is exploiting an emergency atmosphere to embody an overwhelming agenda that would re-engineer america ’s economic system , from autos and financial services to health-care , power , and energy , as well as to distributing income .
unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflict over one another , the risks of an all-out war will be rising substantially . as the europeans well know , there is no way to build their own wall in the mediterranean . moreover , there is a disturbing fear that the trump administration hardly any more than talks on upholding the postwar liberal international order . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , in which the united states should look outward alone for itself . to be sure , america claims to be stepping up its commitment to european security .
meanwhile , america ’s consumer has benefited enormously from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . accordingly , american employment has shifted toward higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting higher incomes in america , too . meanwhile , the american consumer has benefited immensely from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . china ’s growth was powered by labor-intensive exports made more competitive by technology transfers and knowledge transfers from america and other western countries . this , coupled with china ’s massive public and private investment ( enabled by high levels of – and more recently by excess – savings ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese .
when russia annexed crimea and ushered war in eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . this is not the first time that nato appeared to be on its latest legs . a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities under president donald trump demands that europeans revisit the long-held assumptions about their collective defence . many had arrived at the same conclusion prior to july 2014 , when the alliance had too little to focus on outside mission in afghanistan . then came trump , whose administration has removed under european legs , abandoned american leadership within a rules-based international system , and pursued a more nationalist , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are now squeezing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . second , because the stimulus was ill-timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , with inflation soaring above target . meanwhile , us inflation is accelerating across other key economies , with rising oil prices adding further inflationary pressures . by 2020 , the stimulus will run out , with a modest fiscal drag pulling the growth from 3 % to slightly less than 2 % . as a result , america ’s federal reserve will continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and likely to push ahead with short – and long-term – interest rates like the u.s. dollar .
this is because the deserts in the region routinely have a crust of all kinds , of what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sandy and clay particles that baked together or sintered through heat and sun . sometimes that crust is strong enough to carry the person , and at times not much like the hard ice crust that develops along the mountain in colder climates . fostered drift was one of the effects observed during and after the first gulf war . in reality , american and british armies may have had only themselves to blame for themselves . under the crust of all of us and british armies , sandy particles get loose .
other women , such as his self-professed mistress judith campbell , reportedly have sexual relationships with mafia figures as well . likewise , the proliferation of mad males , ” with its dashing advertising managers consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs the emptiness and the destructiveness of early-1960 ’s male sexual prerogative . this reconsideration of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s occurred in other arenas , reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation from a charming playboy to a dangerously compulsive predator . other women , such as his self-made mistress judith campbell , reportedly had sexual relationships with mafia figures as well . the sense of entitlement that enduring such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded in the past , not least since – a process that , like so much in american culture , played off on tv .
one major truth of the past year is that financial market problems lie not only with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks showing an uncanny ability to generate trouble through excessively risky gambling , whether in borrowing to emerging markets or enjoying ltcm . ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial-market crises . one major truth of the past year is that financial market problems lie not only with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks showing an uncanny ability to generate trouble through excessively risky gambits , whether in borrowing to emerging markets or to the delisting of ltcm . ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial-market crises . when push came to stamp out , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply let “ market forces ” take its course . those banks that lent huge sums , mostly unsecured , to ltcm , are the same ones that fixed in about $ 175 billion of short-term credits to the five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and then abruptly reversed gear , to yanked tens of tens of loans in 1997 and 1998 .
cambridge – public-private collaboration or coordination receives a lot of attention nowadays . to be sure , private-private coordination has been the essence of economics for much of the last 250 years . while adam smith initiated us on the more optimistic belief that an invisible hand would take care of most coordination issues , in the intervening period economists have discovered all kinds of market failures , informational imperfections , and incentive problems that gave rise to rules , regulation , and other forms of government and societal intervention . even the world economic forum was transformed into an international organization for public-private cooperation . a plethora of centers for studying business and governmental relations was made up , with researchers producing a major literature on design , analysis , and evaluation of public-private partnerships .
for starters , a wide range of studies , from working by the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago james a. robinson , find that institutions and political culture are unique determinants of long-term growth . the us president , ivanka trump , is drawing down this effort . but while the trump administration has bolstered the american economy ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other ledger takes a rather grim turn . recovery from the damage trump is inflicting on institutions and political culture in america might take years ; if it does , the economic costs could be sizeable . while it is relatively cynical ( some argue that the new program is just a pretext to cut funding out of existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can improve re-education and training is a good thing .
so far , his main proposal has been the “ eurasian union ” ( eeu ) , an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus and kazakhstan . putin is puzzling over how to counter the threat posed by slow growth . his main proposal so far has been the “ eurasian union ” ( eeu ) – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . this would provide a platform for renewed trade , transportation , and other linkages among former soviet countries , and thus capture regional markets for russian products , guarantee russian jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political clout within its old neighborhood . but a 2 % growth ( the venerable tariff on an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s own personal prestige , and it might endanger domestic stability if jobs disappear in its old neighborhood .
with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy depiction of their countries ’ ’ institutions no longer in charge , we can hope that their assessments will be more robust than the earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those tests , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have soon been intended to raise new capital . those tests , unlike their equivalent to the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . but the creation of a european banking union has not been the only significant change for europe in its wake since the crisis . the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all potential horrors to be visible before a takeover did not allow it to be blamed .
not all have succeeded ; nonetheless , with its successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( vision greece ) . the key to securing europe ’s future of the social-security systems – and hence its social model – is faster growth . the obstacles to growth are well known , and it has existed long without being removed . and , again , it is not worth seeing how much europe would improve matters . the reason is quite simple : if there were a politically easy way to generate growth , it already would have been implemented .
russia ’s main foreign-policy tool is gazprom , its state-controlled gas monopoly . typical was the russian holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which managed to acquire a major gold mine , and then accounts for half of the gold-alloys plant . gazprom ’s goal is to control not only georgian gas industry , but also the one pipeline that feeds russia ’s gas to both georgian and armenia . a number of state-owned companies have been privatized for 10 times the sums yielded in asset sales under former edvard shevardnadze 's rule . yet utter lack of transparency has enabled russia ’s companies , with their subsidiaries registered in non-member countries to snap up most of their new offerings .
a quarter-million people are on the run today , nearly half of them on rebel-controlled territory and with almost no access to aid . renewed fighting , coming just eight months after a promising peace initiative known as the “ goma treaty , ” ” means more civilian deaths , and little chance of normality returning to the eastern city of congo . as ever , key victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . a mortality survey , conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year , demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s deadliest crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of war and its lingering effects in the past decade . yet , even at a time when fighting is less high-minded congo suffers from wartime indirect effects .
it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 years – have been characterized by a balance of power and hegemony , respectively , with respectively , respectively . henry kissinger once said that “ peace can be attained only through hegemony or a balance of power . ” of course , getting trade requires more than just the absence of conflict . the same could perhaps be said of trade or even globalization alone . it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 – have been characterized by a balance of power and “ hegemony . ”
for small - and medium-size enterprises , externships provide much-needed creative manpower . externships offer transparency and accountability to educators and imbue the spirit of fearlessness in students . when properly integrated with a student training center , externships can yield competing margins on college applying essays , and at campus or alumni interviews that admissions committees are increasingly being used to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from competing hordes of top-scoring takers . for the larger corporation , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . our education system can no longer afford to wall itself off from the industrial world .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic minorities – now live in per capita income of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same standard that the world bank has uses to define de-destitution-level poverty in either india or africa . towns and cities that have lost their factories to globalization have also lost their tax base , finding it hard to maintain quality schools – the escape route to the next generation . beyond this , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . elite schools recruit people from wealthy individuals to pay their bills , and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this no doubt fosters resentment among the middle-class white working class whose children find no place in this brave new world . finding refuge in the united states on that income is so difficult that , say , $ 1-a-day poverty is almost surely far worse in america than $ 2-a-day poverty in either india or africa .
indeed , many of the online services now offer to link users with their facebook friends or linkedin contacts , or to recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current locations . others might use services like intercom to win insight into their users ’ interests – from their preferences in music to their favorite hobbes – to offer more personalized services . once a company identifies which users have the most influence – well-known bloggers , for example – that it might offer better treatment , in the hope of advising them on the service . some people do n’t want this kind of focus , whether because they are already well-known personalities trying to fend off adams or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unfamiliar players knowing so much about them . website startups may even want to check their users ’ profiles on their users ’ angel databases to identify them as a potential source of funding .
but fillon ’s supporters , too , rejecting multiculturalism , and reacting to their status anxieties by causing dismissing expertise . french politics has not an analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories , talk shows , online statism , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , while left-wing catholics find themselves crammed off under the far right . but fillon ’s supporters also reject multiculturalism , and have responded to their status anxieties by dismissing expertise . with france becoming less catholics and the us becoming more diversified , their “ zombie ” armies of political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s far-right political ascendance have shown , they can not simply be written off . french catholics today feel as though their historically privileged position is under assault – by the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks – and through legislation that has increasingly violated their path to life .
for better or for worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding some paper assets into stocks held by private-sector banks . when they want to stimulate economic activity , central banks buy out from private banks ’ commercial loans , mortgages , deposits and other assets . the banks then hold more cash to lend to the banks . and vice versa when the authorities want to cool down the economy . but a more successful libra becomes , the more money people will shift from their bank account to their libra purse , and the less able central banks will be in stabilizing the economy .
with america ’s invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . despite a long history of alliances dating back to the american revolution and including two world wars , france always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial us security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls consistently show similar problems after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war of the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s . with america ’s invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached all-time lows . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the united nations , while french president jacques chirac felt reaffirmed in his mistrust of an sole superpower and of his call for a “ multipolar world . ”
they can do so in a variety of ways , such as by investing in education , funding for scientific and technological research , and building efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not the way to go , not least because it lowers the revenues needed to make such investments , especially in developing countries , which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , lose out on more than $ 200 billion per year because of tax avoidance by multinational companies . after all , a fundamental corporate welfare principle is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate . when countries create tax regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from the rest of the world , the result is also less money for education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and measures to address climate change . this should not be allowed , and multinational corporations should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries off the hook unless taxes are slashed .
indeed , index performance has largely dictated security selection , and asset allocation has meant little more than accumulations into stocks , bonds , and credits . yet those days are likely to be over as well . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth and heightened political and policy uncertainty . what ’s more , the accelerating expansion of etfs has coincided with bull markets . wide market returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility possibly more frequent .
cambridge – economics teaches that a measure of an individual ’s well-being is the quantity and variety of goods he or she can consume . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and object to the analysis . no one can deny that this consumer – and market-centric vision of an economy has produced plenty of low-hanging fruit . simply put , consumption is the goal ; production is the means by which it will . consumption opportunities lie at once maximized by providing firms with the freedom they need to take advantage of new technologies , dividing labor , economies of scale , and upward mobility .
some estimates put the internet its economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . at the same time , fragmentation – meaning the end of the internet – is a real threat . the internet now links almost half the world ’s population and another billion people – along with some one 20 billion devices – predicted to become connected in the next five years . but there is no guarantee against further enlargement at all . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would make it extremely costly to the world , but that is one possible futures outlined last month in a major report by the global commission on internet governance , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt .
likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications over the past few years reflects innovations – smartphones and tablet hardware and software , for example – that have indigenous people to the american economy . that sounded like an agreeable experience – perhaps a learning experience – for young men who would otherwise be idle and jobless . but it has not been a great inspiration for a future that may help to explain why franklin roosevelt ’s new deal failed to end america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , the perceived relative strength of the american economy today may have reflected some highly visible recent inspirations . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the american people , helped produce lower energy prices , and wiped out america ’s dependence on foreign oil .
mgi has identified multiple interventions around the world that could easily be deployed more broadly . measures that have proven to improve access to education include building more secondary-school enrollment ; ensuring that girls are provided with sanitation facilities at the sites where they study ; and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to boost enrollment and keep girls in school . and an estimated 445 million additional people will need improved access to safe water supplies , part of which reducing the unpaid care work carried out by women in developing countries . nowhere will this ambitious agenda be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require extra investment , generating job opportunities for women , and deploying measures to help women move into more productive work .
the unhcr , as is currently conceived , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency it claims to be . its other major multilateral migration agency , the iom , assists when it returns to migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced people to their place of origin or to other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . but , like the unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . the iom , in particular , lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments use coercion – forbidden under international law – to repatriate , or relocate refugees . heavily reliant on donors and host governments to launch relief surgery is beholden to their concern , and it does not always get the political backing it needs to get a job done .
with political gridlock blocking appropriate fiscal responses – after 2008 , the united states congress passed an annual budget , an essential component of responsible economic management , for five years – it took pressure on central banks to tighten economies artificially . to do this , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures , like quantitative easing , to spur growth and job creation . meanwhile , companies have grown increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their own fiscal bills , including through so-called gap , by which they shift their corporate headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold disproportionately large stakes in financial assets . as a result , most countries face a trio of inequalities – from income , wealth , and opportunity – that , left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences .
according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters of rural areas will vote based on nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular elites rather than to their own fiscal interests . but why has his base allowed him to get away with pursuing policies that mostly hurt them ? all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat populist dress . and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of countries ’ legal migrants . but how long can one possibly expect to support god and guns to the detriment of “ bread-and-butter ” americans ?
the holiday awarded its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider it special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . unfortunately , february 23 is not the only remaining relic of the red army . the holiday awarded its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider it special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . while all other large european nations have abolished military conscription in the past few decades , russians continue with a system in which every physically-fits male citizens between 18 and 27 must serve for 12 months . exemptions are built on the basis of medical terms and are given to university students and workers of certain organizations ( such as the police ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and acrimonious crisis , if perhaps one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest northern african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice what is needed in belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg – and comprising a population of 10.5 million . it was also a pillar of the cultural dynamism and influence of the roman republic and its empire . it is also full of charm and moderation regarding its climate , history , and culture . the first african region to be disintegrated , was the land of saint augustine and its main source for roman evangelism in africa .
given that the failed arab spring revolutions – – of which tunisia is the only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and even military rule . khashoggi ’s disappearance has only further deepening their anxieties . true , any arab state – indeed , virtually all – knows precisely who is to blame for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a very well-known proxy has been forced to conceal the culprit ’s image volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists throughout the arab world . arab countries have a long history of coddling news journalists who toe an official line while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power .
first , the tighter controls and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds , are needed . second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-the-the-counter markets regulations , with standardized cases such as hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . reversing financial liberalization will be difficult , but its negative side effects – including more systemic risk – requiring a wide variety of reforms . first , greater reliance and transparency on complex assets , and who holds it , are needed . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions , such as hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . arabs must take charge of their own agendas , becoming the primary power defining their future , and letting their countries do . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacity , to defend against impervious threats and hegemonic expansionism . arabs must take charge of their own agendas and become the primary force defining their future , and that of their countries . of course , they should continue to engage with the outside world and enhance their strategic relationships and alliances .
this finding came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to increase production and employment in manufacturing was to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealizing laws that protect workers . now a new paper by servaas storm effectively demolishing another famous “ neoliberal ” trope : the argument that the labor market “ entitlement ” depress output and employment . that wisdom has prevailed not only in india itself ; it influenced policies accordingly across a wide swath of developing countries . one of the empirical investigations most frequently cited for this argument is paper by timothy besley and robin burgess , which uses production data across indian post-soviet deep regions . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulation in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that had not adopted such regulations .
at the same time , security concerns increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies in parallel . britain ’s economic prospects have increasingly come to depend on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . a recent polio cartoon showed british bombers walking away on a mission with a single pilot saying to the rest , “ it seems a long way to go to bomb just a few young men from south london . ” job-slashing migration pressures are threatening to overwhelm any pretense of border controls . meanwhile , security concerns have increasingly implicated foreign and domestic policies in parallel .
given this history , it is noteworthy that , in his speech the day after his military victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and all to work together toward venezuela ’s good . after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he proposed deepening his revolution with new legislation on the organization of society and economics . these laws , already agreed but not altogether in place , should serve as a catalyst of a new intra-country institutional arrangement , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and the people , as well as a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . in the meantime , every civil servants of civil power – all of them – now follow chávez . un women have , he emphasizes , voted for chávez and socialism .
at times , however , the damage is not being corrected at any moment . genes can be corrupted by environmental factors , such as radiation or chemicals . they can also be impaired in the products of normal metabolism . indeed , our bodies have elaborate repair systems that preserve the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of damaging agents . if the damage occurs in the key genes regulating cell growth , the spread of cancer can develop .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . ithaca – the internet once hailed as a powerful , democratizing force – allowing innovative start-ups to compete with established businesses , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but , as some of these startups have grown into the behemoths , it has turned that strength into its chief . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now owns , and , rather than democratizing , the us economy , the internet has ended up aggravating the world of inequality .
in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities from our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that , by “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting alone . ” still , one is left to wonder whether this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding would prove powerful enough to cut through not only a long history of distrustful interactions between asean and china , but also of the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? still , one is left to wonder whether this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic han bonding will prove powerful enough to cut through not only a long history of distrustful interactions between asean and china , but also of the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? “ get to ” the developing world , however , it is possible to make a much worse outcome . especially in the case of the chinese , fears of divided national loyalties and of the 25 pillars ” have been strong .
five years of declining gdp has depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays have raised the overall deficit to nearly 5 % of greek gdp this year . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s total budget would show a surplus equal to 0.6 % of gdp this year . this also implies that if greece could escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp . greece ’s economic weakness increases its current level of deficit spending .
in may 1998 , as india tested its nuclear weapons , then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee spoke of china as india 's number one enemy . when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ' fixation on ever achieving an equal status with china . on the other hand , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts referring to the need for learning from china . the two countries ' recent rapprochement marks a vast change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen 's visit , “ india and china can together reshape the world order . "
the director of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has issued new internationally-friendly regulations . while one may debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of a crisis , his order that boosted banks ’ capital has been wholly justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero expenses . because hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would not have worked readily with him in the first place . so , was he getting the stick , rather than the carrot ? so , was he taken the stick , rather than the carrot ?
second , and partly as a result , virtually all of the eurozone ’s periphery ’s sovereign debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . third , financial-market players , and increasingly so , actual firms are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not an exit from the eu itself . now , however , even the mighty bund has started to suffer heightened market anxiety . while there has been price risk more accurate , it is hard to be confident that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio at almost 20 percentage points lower than that of germany , deserves to be judged as having greater default risk . yet it is still difficult to think the unthinkable , much less work in detail the details of it ; but any rational player now must consider an option .
indeed , by coincidence , on last sunday 's young soccer fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , hosted by president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting took place as part of a rally led by surkov , of russia ’s youth-movement activists , of whom constitute a very day . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ “ make ready for an election , a train of your brains and muscle . ” you can always count on our support of you and what you can call on . those arabs were put to exploit outside kremlin wall that very day .
hong kong – sesame street kermit ’s kermit frog once lamented that “ it ’s not easy stein greece . ” today , that sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy – just becoming green that ’s the problem . yet , just as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by significant investments in areas like smart grids , power storage , and renewables . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if a world stick with “ business as usual , ” ” ” ” global temperatures could rise over 4 ° c far beyond the 2 ° c rise that was once deemed “ safe . ” this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge the political , economic , and finance ministers in january to intensify their efforts to achieve a new global agreement on climate change by 2015 .
the un ’s organization and allocation of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and g7 meetings reflects a global equilibrium that was missing long before . the search for the new imf managing director provides a keen reminder of just how unfair today ’s international institutions are . created in the postwar world , they reflect realities that have long ceased to exist . after wwii germany and japan were the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed an important threat , and china was engulfed in a civil war that would have brought mao ’s communists to power . much of the so-called third world either was independent more recent or remained colonies ; all were very poor .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made a last-minute appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , supervised her to agree to a cap on the movement of people ’s movement into the uk . merkel rejected , and the brexit referendum passed by narrow margin . the irony is that merkel now faces the same anti-migrant backlash that cameron did in 2016 . immigration tends to be good for an economy over the long term , especially if the ratio of pensioners to workers goes up . but when immigration levels exceed a country ’s capacity to absorb newcomers , severe economic and social costs can suffer , at least in the short run .
the odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and in a 2010 report by the center for worldwide development ( cgd ) , which proposed that economic sanctions include a mechanism aimed at preventing the accumulation of odious obligations . the mechanism would take the form of a declaration that debt issued by a specific government would be presumed to be odious . such a declaration lowers the flow of funding to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments would renounce their predecessor ’s debts without incurring regulatory and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts are not enforcing larger obligations ) . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just been doing . the cgd ’s report proposes that a regime should be treated as odious if it abuses of human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates public funding .
musharraf resigned under popular pressure in 2008 , and a new election brought asif zardari , benazir bhutto ’s widower , who had been assassinated earlier december , to the presidency . that cleared the path to bhutto ’s return , who remained prime minister until 1996 , when she was sacked yet again , this time by her own pakistan peoples ’ party ( china ) . ignoring constitutional demands , zardari did not transfer executive authority to his prime minister , and instead anticipated the two prime ministers who served under him to follow his rule . but his confrontation with the military intensified over the years , resulting in another military coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 1997 , it was sharif who had reversed himself once again .
wealthy countries ’ shift from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- first occurring in the 2000s in western europe and the us throughout the 2000s -- in which fertility rates fell dramatically . over the last two decades , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew at an annual rate of just 2.6 % . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman over the past 15 years . over the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate has dropped from just over 50 % to european levels slightly more than two children per woman , while per capita income has grown at an impressive 3 % annual rate . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp fertility declines in poor countries that are now showing solid signs of economic progress .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to build a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now being met with a american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . the two countries are also working on similar journeys militarily . it has been developing and deploying anti-access/area-deniers ( a2/ad ) defensive systems . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-deniers ( a2/ad ) defensive systems to launch more . though china still has much of the ahead , its overall defense spending is already second only to america .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its past levels of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable because no other external force for order is available . the resulting vacuum has been filled by different kinds of currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession experiments by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . indeed , america ’s partial withdrawal implies that no end of the enforced stability of the ancient middle east today will spared sykes-picot borders . developments in both syria and iraq have already implied as much , and the future of lebanon and jordan has once again become increasingly uneasy . one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries now play out there .
in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy may hit the same labor-absorption targets that necessitated 10 % growth under china ’s prior model . after all , why are services so important to china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than a country ’s more traditional sectors of growth . this means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption targets – that of employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with a much slower level of gdp growth than did the previous one .
indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces within the eu ’s member states would have planned , with growing success , to compel their respective countries to withdraw from the eu ’s central position in domestic political discourse and electoral campaigns . now , the united kingdom seems certain to hold , with a referendum on the eu ’s question , and the far-left people ’s party ( greece ) , determined , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic reform , may have won spain ’s general election next autumn . to be sure , the events might turn out positively , with the uk remaining segments of the eu , and spain had opting for the status quo , or a gentler vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government embraced . but the seeming worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece is leaving the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk ’s departure from the eu ) , and a spanish election outcome that resembles greece ’s . should such a perfect storm occur , the eu would be in doubt , owing to the sense that other member countries would consider or start planning their own post-eu
aid to the world ’s poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised increases . every year , the key economies are entering a state of recession . and yet , in this gathering storm , one could easily detect a single real accomplishment of the world ’s leading leaders . moreover , aid to the world ’s poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of the promised increase . the climate-change negotiations are going around in circles , as they have in the us .
two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the entire world would spur an economic revival . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone for politics , with the frustration and insecurity of future overshadowing hope . instead , they have paved the way for his legacy . in just a couple of short years , the package of pro-market reforms and economic opening appears out of step with the rest of the world . frustration even goes to the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile .
ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” ” but now it is the morning after . ronald reagan asserted in the 1980 ’s that it was “ “ morning in america , ” ” but in america now it is the morning after . that drive toward the off-the-grid , eat-whatnot you-go rise , bike-there-e/case-shiller , solar-powered collective fantasy , is inevitable : americans were pumped full of hope that more consumption would make them happier , and instead was left out of the pools of debt . it is asked , therefore , to admire the summit of the income pyramid , only to infer that they regarded a pyramid scheme at the bottom of the 1960 ’s . little wonder , then , that a type of survivalist chic became the updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960 ’s .
to be sure , china has been wary of avoiding any dramatic action that might become a casus belli by itself . indeed , by camouflaging its offense as defense , china casts the strain of the burden of initiating a war on its adversary , seeking to lay the foundation – through a brick operation – of the hegemonic middle kingdom . indeed , by camouflaging its offense as defense , china casts the burden of initiating a war on its adversary , seeking to lay the foundation – produced by a brick – of the hegemonic middle kingdom . this shrewdness not only keeps opponents on balance ; it has also undercuts the relevance of america ’s security assurances to allies , and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . china ’s ’ stated desire to settle territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving a permanent position strongly enough to get its way without triggering a shooting last month .
these cities are learning from one another , building on sound ideas and jettisoning poorer ones . los angeles took decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , such as beijing , have converted fast to see the benefits . fundamentally , this is the right approach to managing systemic risk and shifting from complex interconnected systems and constantly managing common resources – though it has yet to dent the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . in the decades ahead , we may well be winning a global system of inter-connected , sustainable cities that are emerging . if successful , all will seek to join the club , we need to see .
new york – a couple of years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with chinese president xi jinping in beijing a lavish hall of humankind . when addressing us policy , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” the ” so named a greek historian who has chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens made war between the two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’ trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on the other four . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’ trap ? in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’ trap ? in its 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’ trap ? following its targeted killing of war by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
to put it crudely : does it really matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions upon millions of people , desecting the environment , and the deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? chinese intellectuals tend to pre-empt the issue , shrugging it off as irrelevant , and anyway overly noxious to contemplate . we need to look ahead and not back , they argue . things are at last moving in the right direction , and let ’s not , please do something that may annoy the hopeful movement . what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ?
london – what have the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and a canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? they are all the cases in which powerful individuals and organizations have attempted to obfuscate , misbehave , or hide behind the front . and , indeed , they are all examples where that effort was not working . the global uproar triggered by the panama papers , 11.5 million files taken out , apparently by computer hackers , from the world bank ’s fourth-largest offshore law enterprise , panama ’s mossack fonseca , is likely to continue for some time . in fact , they are all the cases in which powerful individuals and organizations have attempted to obfuscate , misbehave , or hide behind the front .
some will say that the fateful error was to allow greece , for the first time in history , to adopt the euro . but that answer is far too simple , given that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece . the longer-term consequences will not be savory ; rather , they are also problems for the next day . that the country was unready , however , was supposed to be clear . its fiscal policies had already been out of control , when they joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions were agitating for pushing wages up to european levels , despite lagging productivity .
prime minister david cameron and german chancellor of the exchequer george osborne accuse osborne of blame the european crisis ; indeed , their own combination of economic illiteracy is to blame . that politics was destined to produce a financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and over-indebted banks with depleted assets and larger debts . despite austerity , this year ’s forecast by the uk ’s structural deficit , this year ’s forecast of structural deficit has grown from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts each year . that policy was destined to produce the financial crisis , because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and larger debts . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeating nowadays .
paris – last month , the concentration of atmospheric co2 in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend that fits the worst-case scenario set by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm toward the end of this century – with devastating consequences . indeed , the predicted global mean temperature rise of 2.4-6.4 ° c , caused by such high ambient co2 concentrations , is expected to trigger the worst outcomes predicted by ipcc scenarios , including the loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . even within the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . to avoid imposing this risk and uncertainty on future generations , the global carbon emissions that stand at 8.5 gigatons annually must be halved by 2050 .
because fish and other ocean wildlife are not staying within national boundaries , it is vital for international cooperation on the long-term health of the world ’s oceans and making fisheries and fisheries sustainable . good science is the cornerstone of the two policies . but it is not enough simply to get our respective houses in order . the european commission has just put forward a proposal to reform a common fisheries policy designed to help rebuild european fisheries . true , good science has been the cornerstone of both policies . but the reality is that we must make our respective houses in order .
today ’s transformational advances in health care owe much to new genomics information , the availability of big data to influence real-time decision , increasingly focused and individualized therapies , and to smarter , more connected delivery systems . further breakthroughs , enabled by convergence in science and technology firms , can be anticipated , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . but they are only a start , but they are just a start ; they are more than a result . technologies that engage patients in their own health care , and enable a more seamless adherence to drug regimes , have the potential to improve disease management , reduce hospitalization , and lower cost . in this process , partnerships between health-care companies and technology will become increasingly important .
moreover , establishing controls on one kind of inflow simply results in other forms . capital controls have real costs , even if they do not stanch stanch inflows . even in a fiscally managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have the way to find their way around controls over the past decade . they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically or economically , or have the sheer heft to get around limits . when incentives to flow across borders are strong , they find ways , abetted by the proliferation of operations by multiple eu firms , and the spread of international trade – all of which serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls .
in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to forecast that only a handful of small countries will suffer a us recession next year . such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they may fundamentally alter the calculus in risk pricing and potential returns . in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to forecast that only a handful of small countries will still suffer a us recession next year . today , ’s markets are simple enough to explain crucial factors : earnings grow , inflation was held at bay ; and the global economy appears to be experiencing a broad-based , synchronized expansion . and , while major central banks do intend or have started to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now .
skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman as arguing that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ” just a week before the uk voted earlier this month , skidelsky had worried that voters , “ “ “ “ still wobbly ” from osborne ’s own medicine , maybe we should be able to decide that they should stayed in bed . what could possibly have gone wrong anyway , or , rather , it is legitimate ? more than once , he echoed krugman ’s every suggestion that osborne was motivated by the erroneous belief that , unless he cut deficits , he could forfeit investor confidence ( the confidence fairy ) . instead , the tories won an outright majority , perounding pollsters and keynesians alike .
to my right sat dagan , who just ended eight years as he served as director of mossad ; to my left sat dunke gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views of the best in guaranteeing israel ’s own security , and it was worth recapitulating their respective arguments . gold argued that a return to the pre-1967 borders would leave israel devoid of defensible frontiers . he insisted that israel could guard against the threats from the east only if it maintained its military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river , which is running along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . dagan countered that the military ’s role was to safeguard israel ’s frontiers , regardless of where those frontiers were drawn .
if the rip van winkle economist had been to wake up today after a decades-long sleep over himself and see just such numbers , then he or she would have assumed that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and stood in lines outside the soup of kitchens . but there is no ideological alternative to such an approach to such an approach at all . rather , global interest rates are scraping the floor because gdp growth outside america is so sluggish . the notion that the us wins in a global slump might sound like the sardonic chants of some un-reconstructed marxist in the dingy corner of polish faculty . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his celebrated first step into the moon 50 years ago .
though not planted for climate purposes , these trees soak themselves up to carbon dioxide . new zealand successfully negotiated to include this specific emission offset in its global figures neatly offsetting the real increase . from 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations increased by more than 1.4 million hectares ( 88 % ) . but growing up its forests also decreased new zealand ’s emission in comparison year of 1990 . for safety nets , countries have also bought numerous foreign offsets , including highly thatcherism for russia and ukraine .
in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters opted out of nostalgia for a nineteenth-century past over whatever promise the twenty-first century might hold . hence , they have opted for a leap off of the cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” there is considerable evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . berlin – finally appears to have moved the past its multi-year economic crisis , but that remains unsettled . for any reason of optimism always appears to have emerged as a new cause for concern .
new york – the fundamental outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach became clear in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments even when doing so discrediting them profoundly with its own character . he prefers acting with other nations to go it alone . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded selecting countries as evil and originally refused to come to terms with them ; often , he rejected cooperation with other governments , lest the american find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries rather than influence their actions . and he has shifted america ’s focus from what countries are doing within their borders to how it acts beyond them .
in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are a far cry from fairness and efficiency ; a major improvement would include the establishment of a central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emissions credits . up to now , nations ’ wealth has been based on the prevalence of coal , gas , or oil . this bank would also ensure that emission trading did not run counter to the goal of staying within the global budget , for example , through the complete sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the outset of the treaty of rome . for the moment , all of this remains utopian . but , if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries that are not thus far down the path of de-carbonization ( for example , the large parts of africa ) , or that have left it over time ( like india and pakistan ) , have managed to become wealthy by helping societies that need de-carbonize rapidly . to put that time , all of this remains utopian .
gunter nooke , germany , the eu commissioner for africa , had an even more unpalatable proposition : african countries should cede the land to be administered by europe as special economic zones in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” humanitarian aid alone will not work , either , except as a stopgap measure . former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss for donald trump ’s 2016 us presidential election ; and the brexit vote that preceded it ; a widespread backlash against immigration ; and more recently suggested that europeans should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . such solutions are not only unethical ; they would not be out of step with such solutions , either . gunter nooke , germany , an united nations commissioner for africa , had an even more unpalatable proposition : african countries should cede land to be administered by europe as special economic zones in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ”
since 1988 , iran has had a government-funded , over-regulated system for purchasing kidneys . according to a 2006 study published by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme removed a waiting list for that country ’s kidneys , without provision of ethical issues . a more systematic study of the iranian system is still needed . a 2006 bbc tv program showed many potential donors to go away because it was not meeting the rigorous age criteria and others required to visit the psychologist . a charitable association of patients arranges a transaction , for a set price , and nobody but the seller ’s gain from it .
with the advent of the cold war , us president harry truman ’s administration and the american congress recognize the urgency of european reconstruction . to this end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of marshall plan funds . to this end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of marshall plan funds . at that point , however , the two narratives were diverged . the concern subsequently over discrimination : european countries , fearing that they would find it easier to import from one another ; but , lacking dollars , they would still reject us imports from america .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states have shown , among other things , that public mistrust of global integration is on the rise . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based engine that delivered peace and prosperity to the entire world over the course of decades . that distrust could derail new trade deals currently on the works , preventing future ones from starting . the dangers that this scenario has implied should not be underestimated . as a former trade minister for costa rica , i know firsthand how difficult it is for countries , developed and developing alike , to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to all of their people .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set on keeping him there . over the past three years , there have been some serious grounds to believe that latin america is going through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . chávez is the loser not only because he provided the farc moral support ( he once described them as belligerents , ” not to terrorists , and has publicly labeled uribe an american stooge ) , but also because he is believed to have provided farc covert military backing . that backing appears to have been part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolutions , which have used venezuelan ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in hopes of building a multi-national anti-americanism . but the recent worldwide surge in commodity prices has meant that chile ’s traditional regional players , brazil , and mexico , too , have experienced economic booms in their own .
for america today , the real question is only whether there will be a short , sharp downturn , or an extended period of gradual but shallower , a slowdown . the bush administration hopes , before recently , to forestall a wave of foreclosures , thereby bypassing the us economy when the next president is following through on the iraqi quagmire . even if america 's federal reserve continues to hold down interest rates , the lenders will not rush to make more tainted mortgages . with house prices falling , fewer americans will be willing and able to maintain their own profligacy . true , even if america 's federal reserve continues to hold down interest rates , lenders will not rush to make more tainted mortgages .
but , with linguistic training and following something like the lisbon strategy on growth and job creation ( which aims to create an innovative , “ learning economy , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , labor mobility may well be enhanced . given the risks of intrinsic to political convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly valuable human capital , particularly well-educated young people , to leave lagging regions for those offering more and improved employment opportunities – could prove to be a critical tool for adjustment . but centralization carries its own costs . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the eu . as it stands , labor mobility in the eu is imperfect . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea , at best .
“ it ’s not america , you must work here ” is a popular joke . culturally we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem , and a great deal inherited from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a shared history . many new russians , working like machinery 16 hours each day , looked at their still more relaxed western counterparts with disdain , often found in asia ’s tiger economies . today , most russian elites are feeling themselves not just europeans , but i believe , too europeans . fixated on europe , forgetting that now they live in moscow or irkutk rather than paris or budapest .
far from moving to halt this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it . at the same time , other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , are feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . while suu kyi does not control the military , which is waging a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the chilean fund ( unicef ) all have been forced to suspend work in affected areas . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who previously championed the international women ’s rights – as well as the nobel peace prize for her role in fighting for myanmar ’s democracy .
this will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already set a timeline for just 18 months . in march , the united kingdom will likely invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering a formal withdrawal process . next year , europe ’s politics will be consumed , meanwhile , by the brexit negotiations . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that ensures the wellbeing of the future eu-uk relationship . while eu-turkey relations currently are not at their best , the dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their shared interests , which are shaped not just by economic interdependence , but also by the refugee crisis and the collective struggle against terrorism .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in practices by their own faiths , a ruling condemned entire muslim world for its negative portrayals of islam . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of sanctions as part of sharia law that might have included strict limitations on muslims ’ ’ right to choose the way they practice their faith . in fact , international actions of press freedom and corruption reveal persistent deficits just as they have . according to the american state department ’s own human-rights reporting , curfews of religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , the bombardment of christian churches , and the prohibition of cases carried out by shia islam to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ “ very high ” ” ” boundary limits on religious freedom .
yet recent revelations about antarctica are a different story . there are not many human activities whose impact can reasonably foretell decades , centuries , or even millennia ahead . the fallout from nuclear waste should be one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming via greenhouse-gas emissions , and its impact on rising sea levels is another . indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has stated , on uncharacteristically strong terms , that sea level is “ virtually certain ” to continue to rise over the coming centuries or millennia . true , the un ’s most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report stated , on uncharacteristically strong grounds , that sea levels are “ virtually certain ” to continue rising over the coming centuries or millennium .
addis ababa – africa is bearing the brunt of lives lost , economies are bankrupting , and fractured relationships through terrorism . it is a continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram abducted 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their sleep at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks garner many of the world ’s attention , most people do not realize that in the last five years alone , an estimated 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and the groups espousing it threatens to undo africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also for decades to come . african countries have been especially vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of soft institutions and ungoverned spaces where extremist groups may german .
the first problem is china ’s economy , so dynamic on the surface , but thus rickety under-neath . the huge rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) massive in november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises ( soes ) through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of a worldwide recession . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s ’s ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged wrenching demand-side dysfunction in advanced countries . japan ’s center-left analyst chi lo lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside a micro failure . but the price has been an increasing serious misallocations of capital , resulting in growing portfolios of bad loans , while excessive chinese household savings have bloated real-estate bubbles .
on human rights , the us argues that there are , in fact , fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and existing systems . yet , in the american view , this is vastly different from an organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . for these reasons , a bilateral strategic-trust deficit is growing . xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept for “ a new type of great power relationship , a ” ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others have come to be struck is the near-inevitability of a prolonged clash between a rising power ( china ) and an established power ( america ) . moreover , america ’s insistence on not containing china ( as it did with the soviet union ) was ; on the contrary , it has made china ’s economic rise easier to access american markets , much as it did with global markets through american support for chinese accession to the wto .
still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes “ distort ” behavior , impeding wealth creation . yet this is simplistic , at best . the nonpartisan congressional budget office ( cbo ) and the institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have shown that more than 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholders , rather than on workers . and there is little evidence that a corporate-tax burden actually falls on employees , rather than on capital . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is a fairly different matter from competition among firms in the us .
there can be no doubt that holland spends substantial amounts of money on caring for old residents . thus , europe ’s welfare states face a severe dilemma . there can be no doubt that holland spends substantial amounts of money on caring for old people . doctors are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and families that want them , and that are even willing to pay for them . a single recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave the country or go to courts .
new york – some developing countries in asia are working in a different way . china ’s powerful central government overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , and for many years has run roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . in democratic india , for example , it has taken just eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport , because the courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its outskirts . unfortunately , it is far from clear that a chinese infrastructure development model may be exporting universally .
that change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for very substantial cuts in individual tax rates . but congressional republicans might insist on paying for cuts in personal-income tax by curtailing deductions that individuals now use to hold down their own tax bills . likewise , it is easy to fall into the thinking of fiscal cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand . the tax plan put forward in the name of the house of representatives by paul ryan , the speaker of the us house of representatives , calls for eliminating every set of deductions other than those for charitable donations and for mortgage interest . and even if there are enough revenues to be earned , because coming from airports , firms might be discouraged from having to rely on long-term pricing deals .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for not living up to their environmental challenges . starting in the aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ the rhino ark , ” ” ” ” ” ” originally conceived to protect the highly endangered black rhine from poachers ’ ravages of poachers , is supported by very people who might have resisted it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas . in fact , observers frequently cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent charge to everyone : that rising poaching is endangering species like elephants and rhinos . in kenya , by contrast , an innovative and large-scale conservation project is being underway .
there is nothing cyclical about the enduring aftershocks of a japanese-style balance-sheet recession , which have now been apparent for almost five years . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely started for american households . the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from its 1.5 % low in 2005 , but more than half the 7.5 % average recorded during the final three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , it remains massive for the entire debt overhang . the convoluted logic behind this strategy is entirely troubling , at least for almost five years .
europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , as well as more recently chaotic imf debts elsewhere , show that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . moreover , a desire to be admitted into a club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries , that later joined the european union . a second early success was the fact that , through virtually every measure of international use , europe instantly became the world ’s second-global reserve currency . ecb president mario draghi deserves top-down marks on offsetting germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs for accommodation . more recent insistence on the “ success side of the ledger ” includes progress in some of the periphery countries , particularly spain , which lowered their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs .
berlin – europe ’s economy is slipping into troubled , and in all likelihood prolonged recession , largely self-inflicted . while germany continues to try to banish the specter of hyper-inflation with severe eurozone austerity measures , the eu ’s crisis countries face a very real threat of deflation , with potentially disastrous consequences . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to take hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . if it is unlucky , the crisis arriving at a head at the beginning of germany ’s federal election year , and all of its previous calculations could be moot , because , despite germans ’ frustration with europe , a german electorate would punish severely those who have allowed europe to fail . it is only a matter of time – no longer very much time – before economic destabilization gives rise to political instability .
even today , thanks to a wide variety of sophisticated means , we can detect very little nuclear-testing tests in remote locations . the ctbt is needed , owing to the role that nuclear tests play in developing and improving nuclear weapons . it sets a new standard on the nuclear-test-ban treaty obligations and verification of all of its parties . such tests are also those of political symbols not of which have no place in a world dedicated to eliminating these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . at the same time , the treaty is just about identifying the same rights and responsibility for all of its parties .
we need leaders with sufficient mastery of detail , like china ’s recently concluded premier zhu rongji , who is unable to tell us not just how they are getting us from personal to z , but can actually lead us out of approach from term to b. after all , their ability to act is limited to the politics of national security . looking around , leaders like this seem to have been dogged by dysfunctional political systems . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes have rested – probably too many for any single leader . or , where they exist at all , they appear to be constrained by dysfunctional political systems .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within the framework of international law . the un security council resolved in november that year that “ the acquisition of territory by war ” is unacceptable . indeed , a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders is precisely what then-us president barack obama called for . today , palestinians seek statehood for just 22 % of the territory that it included in mandatory palestine , as long as israel was unilaterally established on regions far larger than the un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . successive security council resolutions and international covenants have upheld that principle .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a world networked by state interests and shared causes is probably more resilient than a single crammed into artificial ones , and an increasingly restive nation box . conversely , we may be found in a world whose eastern half is organized into strong authoritarian structures of power , with the west embracing post-state models . in that sense , economic success in either china or india may be the sort of “ undoing ” states , because the middle-class political aspirations render current arrangements dysfunctional . the question for international governance is how to provide a institutional and rules-based framework in a world of competing organizational structures . our policymakers ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon us states and diplomacy toward their fate .
at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . many hope that these changes will help the ccp become more efficient , strengthen the market ’s role , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap that ensnared many emerging-market countries . nonetheless , party rhetoric reveals little relation to how those goals will be reached . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to purge itself from vested interests . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the acclaimed free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined .
curtailing the flow of recruits is even more vital . nothing , however , would have an even greater impact than turkey ’s decide that it will no longer authorize itself a conduit , enforcing un security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . curtailing the flow of recruits in the process is even more vital . but such flows should be set aside , both by governments and financial institutions . countries may do more to compel more to compel individuals to leave in countries like iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list would help , for example , . yet another component of any strategy must be to counter is ’s impeachment and propaganda .
political technology means secretly sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to block a russian-arab version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against an overtly scripted scripted “ enemy . ” no doubt , we also need a simple understanding of the mechanics of russia ’s succession politics . in 1996 , an enemy was communists ; by 1999-2000 , the chechens ; by 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs ” “ oligarchs . ” medvedev himself may have found some or all of this nasty kind , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that is unlikely to go away overnight . it is now the us – the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won de facto stability .
the visegrád group , cefta , the central european initiative , spawned a thriving free trade system and increased investment flows between the region ’s countries . in a broader context , hungary ’s re-integration of western institutional structures goes steadily , if not at a desired pace . so our task was not just to reconstitute the state , but to society too “ too ” its family ’s values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . through learning one another ’s languages , through collaboration based on shared values , shared interests , alongside historical ties , central european societies demonstrated what spectacular results could be achieved . today , our newly freed societies must learn from the languages of our constituent parts just when we learned our new economic and political language .
the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water catchment areas , as well as national park , are vitally important to kenya . in 1988 , conservationists decided to fund and build an electrified fence to protect the district of the aberdare of the national park bordering smallholder farms . the fence was designed to prevent intrusion into human population and park ’s degradation . but it also protected farmers whose crops were routinely destroyed by marauding elephant and other wildlife . local farmers welcomed an initiative that influenced the decision to expand their fence to satisfy their entire aberdare .
first , social inequality has grown unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union , and also to the threat of a expansionist communism . the specter of revolution has forced western elites to use the state ’s power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . this has been tolerable as long as the overall pie has expanded , but the 2008 global financial crisis has come to an end . today , these protests have two main causes , none of which is unfolding . but , when communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , western ’s wealthy , belief that they had little more to fear , pressed for a return to the welfare state , causing inequality to rise rapidly .
so , too , are the other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . the un has estimated the total value of illicit drug trade by $ 400 billion , or about 7 % of global trade . critics say that the figure is only half-that – still an impressive sum . colombia today is far worse off than chicago under al capone . under 1998 , the un estimated the total value of illicit drug trade by $ 400 billion , or about 7 % of global trade .
even when the volunteers were used , they were nowhere near as enthusiastic as official accounts claim . tatiana insisted that bam construction began in 1974 , a politically correct date , after which to apply “ clean labor . ” but the railroad ’s first branch , initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that had ran further away from china ’s frontier network , was built up coercive labor , including russian inmates and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , today ’s ghost towns . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few reenlisted , and a lot barrel-deserted before completing their four-year term . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era bam construction showed what dying soviet system had still been able to achieve .
the problem for m5s is that , owing to italy ’s new electoral law , it will need to win roughly 40 % of the combined vote to secure its parliamentary majority . as he demonstrated with his electoral victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s deepest strength has always been shaped by coalitions . whereas proportional representation will determine the two-thirds seats in the lower house , one-third will be decided by the first-past-the-post vote vote in single-member constituencies , where m5s will likely lose , because it is neither willing nor able to form an electoral alliances that needed to secure majorities . in fact , party groupings that will benefit the most from the current electoral system will be the sole authority able to forge a pre-vote pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . and , with support at about 26-29 % , it remains popular despite its tenuous performance conducted by the peoples ’ league party .
per india ’s code of political conduct , budget changes were deferred until after the elections . the upa ’s ’s critics long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares , and freight charges on railway services – which they could not cover the deferred maintenance costs to ensure train safety and tracks – far less that expansion and improved service – reflected a government ’s inability to make tough choices . it is true that coalition politics prevented decisive action , with a railroad minister summarily dismissed by his own party leader , whom the upa had been unable to confront – after attempting to raise fares . but , in a pre-election interim budget , the upa government finally mustered the bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in railway fares and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to introduce price increases , though officials made sure to emphasize that they were merely following up on an existing mandate .
this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing the astonishing degree of cultural diversity . many indians , particularly the poor , lack a documentary evidence of when and where they were born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only over the last few decades . beneath the recently enacted bill , muslim migrants could be declared illegal . coupled with the government ’s plan to create even more contentious national register of citizens , the authorities would be able to dishearl any kind of indian-child muslims who have been unable to prove his or her provenance toward india . while non-muslims would , through an enacted bill , get a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus for demonstrating that they are indian .
compounding the problem , no one really understands the precise connections among russian companies and european institutions and markets . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was totally unexpected . having just emerged from deep recessions , financial disruptions could easily have caused europe to slide back into recession , especially in view of the european economy ’s close links to russia through trade and energy . indeed , financial sanctions on russia are not targeted , temporary , or fully credible . is europe today ready for a similar failure of an important financial institution ?
gdp almost tripled over the last 20 years ; yet , with real wages rising at less than one-half of that rate , growth became decoupled from ordinary citizens ’ fate . indeed , south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled , fertility rates have plummeted to their fourth-lowest level among advanced economies , with suicide rates at the highest in the oecd . meanwhile , south korea has been troubled , for two key reasons . its signs of social distress are proliferating . more than half of middle-income households spend each month than they earn .
police actions must be merciless , even when this means more controls and supervision . for historical reason , europe benefits from the political maturity that it has enabled it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview that only strengthened , rather than undermined , hostile ’s enemy of fanaticism . it is precisely to prevent the development of a collective security fear that we need to alter the equilibrium between security and freedom . while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional arms , its capacity to fight terrorism is arguably higher . this may entail eliminating shadow “ tax havens , ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous .
ross should read mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half banks , and reflect the soaring borrowing costs for lower-income families . or so it could just ask mick mulvaney , an acting white house chief of staff . while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from the payg industry , which made most of its profits from high-interest lending lending at high-interest rates to people with no alternative when it so desperately needed cash . mulvaney , too , devoted considerable time over the last two years to weaken the safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau had previously attempted to implement in order to pre-empt some of the industry ’s worst abuses . as the government shutdown heats up , the share prices of payday lenders rose .
seoul – a vast military revolution is taking place all over east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , an ex-politburo member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission on corruption charges , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit the country to pave the way for military aid to its allies . more broadly , there are three ways to foster an international calm : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building up international institutions . despite rising regional tensions , which have inspired these movements , china ’s relationships with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to lead to a direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including within china , to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways if this outcome is to be avoided .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years has to do with an essential source of instability in the banking system , one that we can and must design from life itself . in a severe financial crisis , banks find that the falling market value of many of their assets leaves them short of capital . they can not raise vastly more capital out of crisis lines , so to restore capital adequacy , stop making new loans , and to call in their ill-gotten loans , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . in order to do this , we must advance the state of our trading technologies . this problem is rather technical in nature , just as are its solution .
he rejected wahhabism – the jihadists ’ ideological framework . yet , enjoying a massive subsidy from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , providing it with a degree of security . kadyrov also catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . yet he has staked out that islam is an indispensable part of the chechen tradition , presenting himself as a leader that has fully grasped this . thus , he has emboldened islamic dress codes and built a vast mosque – one of the greatest , if not largest , in europe .
a special focus on elementary school and libraries outside of towns should be devoted to learning . roads , airports , and communications systems must also be revitalized if commerce is to be rebuilt . the education system needs almost from scratch , and , with so many women anxious to return to classroom learning , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians gain a powerful workers lobby . afghanistan poses special difficulty in reconstruction , because it is not a community with a strong political center . village housing has to be provided at a massive level if it is to be rebuilt .
one popular explanation for the two banks ’ divergent approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ ’ respective historical experience . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ different approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ ’ respective historical experience . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood by idly as economies collapsed , is a molding event seared into the awareness of every american central banker . what i have just described is no mere hypothetical , of course . banks ’ institutional personalities tend to reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the challenges they face .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit-cutting took effect , predicted a large reduction in unemployment , or that economic growth would set back to brisk rates . on the contrary , “ “ the catastrophic turn toward austerity ” devastated millions of jobs and devastated much of the lives , ” he argued , with america ’s congress exposing the americans to “ the imminent threat of severe economic harm from short-term spending cuts . ” as a result , the “ full recovery ” still looks a very long way off , ” ” he warned . i raise all of this , because krugman has taken a victory lap in his end-of-2014 columbia university on “ the obama recovery . ” “ and i ’m starting to worry that it may never come after all . ”
a small operation in finland , it is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes to spring up globally . still , while the market for new car cars has slowed dramatically , that could be a good time to launch a deal replacing gasoline motors with electric cars . in fact , even as many are in trouble , that probably wo n’t be the optimal time to launch a new car company , either . the group ’s initiative led by räsänen is called ecars – now ! borrowing from an open-software movement , renegotiating sänen and his colleagues wants to get the idea and fundamental designs free , thereby encouraging a variety of firms everywhere in the world to realize it locally . yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , this could be the right time to start a business replacing electric cars .
comparing these failures , vladimir putin ’s accomplishments in chechnya look like lofty success . but my view is that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that no one has ever developed an accurate method of measuring whether and to what extent a government is efficient . the united states , with a government that can scarcely be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . if the criterion of effectiveness is the capacity to make all of a company ’s purposes , we will most likely never find such a thing .
these and other financing streams have helped african researchers to develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for contagious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on those gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . in 2003 , the african union and the new africa development partnership ( africa ) began implementing a continent-wide strategy to develop and deploy science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation , and its integration into the global economy . since taking hold , africa ’s leaders have pooled their science resources even before .
london – just five years after the american investment bank lehman brothers ’ collapse , the world still failed to address the fundamental cause of the ensuing financial crisis – an excess of it . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to predict the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was fully assured so long as inflation remained low and stable . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , we failed to predict how painful its consequences would be . official forecasts at the spring of 2009 had anticipated neither a slow recovery , nor that the initial crisis , essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would fuel a knock-on crisis of the eurozone . and that is one reason why the us economic recovery has been progressing far more slowly than anyone anticipated ( it did not come at all ) .
for britons in the “ “ remain ” camp , such a transition will enable the uk to remain in the eu by all but name . and , for some of those in the “ leave ” camp , it is a way for trump to exit without falling off a cliff edge . the big difference today is that the uk will lose the votes on the brexit table . the third arrangement in the phase two will centers around a roadmap for uk-eu relations after 2021 . this will not be a free-trade deal , but rather a political declaration on where the two parties are hoping to end up on their own .
fourth , europeans find it difficult to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , female or gay . at the same time , the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia , as well as salafi extremists and theological moderates . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we perceive religion as a matter of individual things with his or her god ; muslims see it as organizing a social principle . the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia communities , as it is by waging anti-west jihad . muslims find it difficult to comprehend how we can believe our society to be civilized as pornography and drunkeness openly .
with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost its status as world power ; in europe , it was forced to pull back toward a frontier that it had extended non-western ward since peter the great – ultimately into the communists and thuringia . yanukovych was always the kremlin ’s ally . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which defeated his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and maintain ukraine into the russian “ camp . ” the answer can be found in the european relations between russia and russia . so why did the eu send the association agreement without offering ukraine anything comparable to what russia had been offered ?
less obviously , a country does not want misguided or nonsensical change ; it wants investments that seem at the financial sector as productive . for its part , what is needed for high performance seems to be ? less visibly , a country does not want misguided or pointless change ; it wants investments that seem to appear to the financial sector as productive . for staff to develop , they need to be imbedded in stimulating the workplace , with new problems to solve , the harder tasks to be mastered , adding abilities to strive for . indeed , the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism combined with weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate current antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . second , standard views on business income and taxation of wealth will have to be modified to account for it firms ’ monopoly power . new public-interest concepts are also required for regulating new public information channels , such as social networks . and , third , laws aimed at safeguarding private information should be reevaluated , in order to ensure that they companies are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . above all , the public must develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , particularly the ways that technologies that have improved the lives of so many are enriching the livelihoods of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third – humanitarian ” military operation in just as many years – this time in the central african republic ’s – interventionism that has appeared to be discredited following america ’s invasion of iraq appears to have returned as an accepted norm on international affairs . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with recent operation justified by their achievability rather than merit . to understand how this shift occurred is to see why , more often than not , such interventions have failed to attain its aims . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with recent operations justified by their achievability rather than merit . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , the intervention nowadays requires nothing less than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counterterrorism goals , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous link to ongoing united nations thinking .
he argues that economists became blind to catastrophic macro failures , because they mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models for the pursuit of truth . the simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models makes them useful to explain the price mechanism and equilibrium or imbalances of key aggregate economic variables . but it is the inability of both to describe or analyze the actual behavior of key market players . both goodness and krugman bemoan their occupation ’s neglect of their occupation patrimony , a kind of tradition dating at least to adam smith that appreciated the spectacular and unifying theories of political economy and moral philosophy . the contemporary obsession with an reductionist , mechanical way seems to have driven the profession from theory to ideology , puts it outside touch with the real economy .
questions about how to regulate access to genetic sequence are now cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the un food and agriculture organization . perhaps the single most important forum for such discussions is the united nations conference on biological diversity ( cbd ) , a major treaty that regulating our access to biodiversity . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place on cancún , mexico , in early december . after all , such no-strings-attached databases do not simply facilitate sharing ; they allow theft . nobel laureate participants must focus on the need to protect the rights of resource providers .
if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , especially given that one powerful effect of the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to make it far easier to participate in the worldwide labor division now centered on the american people . demand growth at a pace that had been viewed in any preceding decade as highly satisfactory is suddenly desperately poor , and bush is being blamed ( with some fairness ) for the slack labor market that has resulted . true , as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the hardest work of preparing for growth , because it must generate – and adjust – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive entrepreneurship . but for all except bush – and those left unemployed at a leftward turn in demand – this is an extraordinary opportunity . demand growth at a pace that was seen in any one part of the last decade as highly satisfactory is suddenly poor , and bush is being blamed ( with some fairness ) for the slack labor market that had resulted .
earlier this year , an artificial-meat producer beyond meat was celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . rather than focus on meeting rising demand for meat by scaling up factory-farming operations , just as companies have done throughout the past , promoting , and , like impossible foods , such as impossible foods – is working to help cut overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – involving climate change and a high level of inequality – this must include harnessing platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . to avoid another public backlash , it must compel such platforms to serve us not just as consumers , but also as business leaders , workers , and even the public alike . this is propelling the latest transition in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on becoming wiser of what to scale .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will reconverge in buenos aires to the world trade organization last july , next year . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never an easy one . with the united states having historically guided the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to hold out against another . some sort of agreement is typically delivered , but only at the last moment , and its language is often vague . this time , however , the outcome might become even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even the very symbolic agreement to tout an aggressive marketing campaign .
poland introduced such a law in 1998 . similar norms exist in poland in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . the pis , for one , has accrued substantial electoral support , thanks partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . similar norms exist in poland , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance nationalist narratives , which can demonstrate a very handy for politicians looking at popular support .
instead , reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher equity requirements for heads of government , as well as for pre-funding deposit insurance through a special-purpose levy on banks . admittedly , there are difficulties with every proposal to curb the scale of “ risky ” banking , especially in the context of a global economy of free capital mobility . that would enable the creation of capital buffers in good years , which might then be set in motion in bad years . there seems to be little appetite for proposals to vary countercyclical capital adequacy requirements . as is frequently pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there will be ample scope for regulatory arbitrage .
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in expanding health-insurance coverage to the millions of americans who would not otherwise have . and , contrary to its critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed up health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally have been bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds to curbing excessively high health-care costs is still not warranted . that will depend on the obama administration ’s additional policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debates with india over its intellectual property . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby .
economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have shown convincingly that an economy in transition requires strong aggregate demand to pull resources into new sectors . likewise , cutting fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to “ zombie firms ” would free up fiscal capacity and allow resources to be reallocated to new sectors that ease services and urban employment ; but this would make it worse – at least at first – ’s request shortfall nowadays . robust aggregate demand has always been vital to successful transformation through economic growth . if both old and new industries in the us economy are in a slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline , and structural adjustment will stall . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting a transformation through austerity is not the way forward .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . london – how radically will digital currencies transform our method of exchange ? the united states ’ targeted killing by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . with innovations in the digital payment barreling ahead , these questions are now commanding the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to rescue the israeli-palestinian peace process is on the verge of failure . though achieving a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest frustration will render the united states unable to preserve even the façade of a “ peace process ” ” ” ” ” that has been all but a process of trial and no peace . if anything , israel has been accelerating a settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while deepening its demands , particularly regarding sharon ’s stationing of israeli soldiers in the jordan valley . indeed , the negotiations are failing for a few reasons , starting with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , despite resentment of the international community , including the us . and that might not have been such a bad thing , anyway .
vasily aleksanyan was executive 's vice president of yukos , and as a lawyer defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , after their arrest in 2003 . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for which treatment was withheld . vasily aleksanyan has been executive vice president of yukos , and as a lawyer defended khodorkovsky and his partner platon lebedev , after her arrest in 2003 . he was subsequently disbarred , and was himself arrested in april 2006 . in december 2008 , a court of moscow approved his release on bail of 50 million rubles ( around $ 1775,000 at that time ) .
moreover , they need this to happen by the end of the year , in order to avoid further damage from major tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline requires that both sides start to take symbolic , substantive steps immediately . as a first step , china should propose agreement using the same text as its earlier 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should remove american provisions for overseeing tariffs once the agreement has been signed ; and , unilaterally , re-imposing tariffs should america concludes that china is n’t honoring the deal . and it should add the commitment that china fulfills the agreement , in ways that are “ consistent with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ”
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by journeying the well-worn path of industrialization . peasants became factory workers , a process that undermined not only the unprecedented surge in economic productivity , but also the wholesale revolution in a social and political organization . a progression of manufacturing-based industries – textiles , steel , automobiles – emerged from the ashes of traditional artisan ( and guild ) systems , transformed agrarian societies into urban ones . over time , manufacturing ceded its place to services . the labor movement led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima disaster . indeed , when compared with other power utilities , nuclear power ranks higher than that of oil , coal , and natural gas systems in fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . there have been 57 accidents since the chernobyl disaster of 1986 . another nuclear-power accident index – that one includes costs beyond death and property damage from , for example , injured or irradiated workers , who did not result from shutdowns or leaks , documented 956 incidents , from 1942 to 2007 . another nuclear-power catastrophe index – that one includes costs beyond death and property damage , such as the wounded or irradiated workforce and mississippi – that did not result in shutdowns or leaks , documented 956 incidents , from 1942 to 2007 .
unlike some of her predecessors as german chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany , remains wary of russia ’s strategic designs . at the same time , russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than to washington or new york . by contrast , some people are not too bothered by this , too . there can be little doubt that if russia and china benefit , at least not in the short run , america ’s ’s ’s abdication of its leadership . that may no longer be so straightforward as , once the american people no longer see themselves as reliable protector , and fear of china turns into panic .
but , when a treaty is well negotiated , the end result brings far more benefits than the costs . the negotiators decided to leave no unconditional request for justice . and doing so would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including issues affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and more than a half-century of conflict . for uribe and his opposition allies , the main objection to the pact concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . in fact , the deal also included an historic land-reform program . but , if an agreement is well negotiated , the end result brings substantially more benefits than the costs .
on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , because they were effective fighters with strong support from their own populations ; and presumably would not survive under an isis caliphate . helping syrian kurds , on the other hand , was a good idea , because they were efficient fighters with strong support from their own populations ; and presumably would not have survived under an isis caliphate . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because forces opposed assad lacked the requisite popular support , and it was not ready to help them win that support . elsewhere , it is right to strengthen south korean and japanese defenses , but evidently wrong in order to risk a nuclear war . the american people , for example , were wrong to invade iraq in 2003 ; but it was correct to join the fight against isis and save the yazidis of the massacre .
the trouble began at the end of the cold war , when the breakdown of a bankrupt communist ideology became complacently interpreted as the triumph of markets . the individual had become the ultimate agent of change – an individual conceived as the kind of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . as communism was discarded , so was the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized . such an individual ’s identity originated not from class interests or other sociological characteristics , but from the market ’s logic that dictates the maximization of self-interest , either , as a manufacturer , consumer , or voter . true , economics has been placed on a pedestal and enshrined in institutions such as central banks and competitive authorities , intentionally separation and made it independent from politics .
madrid june ’s turkish general election has sent a powerful message : turkey ’s national democracy remains intact . with their votes cast , turkey ’s citizens have denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needs to amend the constitution . indeed , while there have been some grievances over transparency during the campaign process , democracy has prevailed , with a stunning 86 % of eligible voters turning out to be living , a rate seldom seen in europe . the rest of the world , and the european union in particular , should take note . moreover , by dispensing with the peoples ’ democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the vote , they have been letting the party enter parliament for the first time , with representation throughout the country , not just in kurd-majority regions .
to redistribute the burden more equitably , germany attempted to have a european quota system instituted to allocate applicants among eu member countries . but germany of its eu partners rejected that as “ moral imperialism . ” frequently , arab families send their minors to germany in the not-too-unjustified hope of gaining rights to other family members to follow a later point . germany will have to cope with the impact of this refugee wave over several years to come . if an app succeeds , a refugee has a right to be brought along his or her family members , as can .
washington , dc – anyone is watching the united states ’ presidential race needs to see that national opinion polls do not provide an accurate picture of how an election might turn out . in almost any state , a candidate who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote , won the vote by 100 % of its vote . every state is awarded a certain number of votes in an electoral college , depending on the size of its population . thanks to america ’s electoral college , it is not the ones who wins the most of the governing national that issues eventually , but which wins where states . the candidate who crisscrossed the social-electoral threshold wins the presidency .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will begin exiting zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fear of renewed volatility in the emerging economies ’ ’ ’ currency , equities , and stock markets . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , and the ensuing likely rise in the dollar ’s value might worry , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past several years , they will now face an increase in the real local-currency value of those debts , with rising american rates pushing emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby raising debt-service costs further . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled in may 2013 its exit from its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging-market countries ’ financial markets and economies . but , while the fed ’s prospect of raising interest rates is likely to generate significant turbulence in emerging-market financial markets , the risks of outright crises and distress are tighter .
indeed , under chirac , france seemed increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views , and the universality of its model – the very accusations so often expressed against george w. bush ’s america . on the contrary , despite being right for iraq , chirac became isolated , an isolation that grew because he also failed to reestablish satisfactory relations with president bush . chirac compounded his error over iraqis in his approach to the new european commission . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france was represented powerfully , with pascal lamy holding a trade portfolio . faced with american unilateralism , it failed to foster a realistic multilateral solution .
water-intensive food and energy production – among others – rests on uninterrupted supplies . and the expanding global population – set to reach more than nine billion by 2050 – will still strain water resources further . governments should take the lead in ensuring the careful management of careful management and sustainable-use scarce water resources . first , drastic improvements in water-related services , including supply and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , renewable energy , energy management , and environmental establishments , are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . urgent action is needed to provide access to safe , affordable water and sanitation for all .
while iran ’s leaders often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit in iran ’s current economic turmoil . four factors have made the oil embargo especially unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports is more painful when world oil prices were soaring . ahmadinejad took advantage of the country ’s massive build-up of oil , resulting in unprecedented earnings . but iran faced similar economic hardship before – in the 1980s , when oil exports collapsed altogether amid the country ’s eight-year trade war with iraq – and global oil prices in 1986-2000 were exceptionally low – and was dealing with relatively well .
israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while the npt party , the israelis will say , has also put israel ’s destruction high on its agenda . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world about its nuclear program , unless the middle east political environment changes in radically positive ways . across-the-board nuclear equality may ultimately support iran ’s nuclear assertions , either . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which committed themselves to a nuclear opaqueness strategy , both perceive themselves as nuclear-armed states and want the world to accept that status . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be a forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world concerning its nuclear program unless a political environment changes in radically positive ways .
protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to smack of enormous punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been caught flat-footed . they want to hold bathing in their press coverage , but , if push their china-bashing too far and speeding up , protectionists will be perceived as hindering a delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( to allow the yuan to rise by 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell if and when , on the other , what happens next . whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest step toward wring its currency , one need to hide its strategic brilliance . but no one currently knows whether china ’s infant step is the start of something far greater because china ’s authorities are merely walking a day , denying another .
hollande is not likely to be less friendly to america than was sarkozy , viewed by germany as france ’s most pro-european president . and here , obama , in particular , will quickly come to understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his intent will be to emerge as a sound , unsurprising partner . hollande , by backing the military intervention in libya in march 2011 , joined with the uk ’s condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close political allies recently declared that , should the un security council approve military intervention in syria , france “ might envision the participation of ” such efforts .
deflation -- a steady ongoing collapse of prices – gave corporations and consumers a powerful incentive to cut spending and hoard cash . it reduced the capacity of corporations and banks to service their debt , and may trigger a chain of large bankruptcies that were destroying confidence in the financial system , providing still more incentive to hoard incomes . such robust incentives to hoard rather than spending can keep demand low and falling , and unemployment high and rising , for a much longer period than even the more laissez-faire-oriented politician or the economist ever daring contemplate . deflation -- a steady ongoing decline of prices -- gave corporations and consumers a powerful incentive to cut spending and hoard cash . but if this is an issue solved more than fifty years ago , why is it now haunting the us ?
and of the 50 million children living outside of their own countries , or have been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , facing new threats to their lives and well-being . millions of children are the undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions more continue to be compromised with exploitation , abuse , and worse . the united nations – with its support from countries like sweden , and to work through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef – is alleviating suffering wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises are testing that system just as it has never been . this is not to say that it is , or that it is , a reality .
overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . to that end , a african coalition led by the united nations economic commission for africa and a new climate economy is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path . the un secretary-general ’s un climate summit next month should be just such a moment , with countries committing to stepping up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement – so that they can reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . partnerships with domestic finance and planning ministries , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will underpin the process . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set the bar high , putting pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions .
berlin – the rejection of european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , on all the evidence , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than was a rejection of europe . today , however , the realignment of the wealthy , the developed world around the monetarist policies promoted by economists such as milton friedman , which began around the 1970 ’s , has broken down with all that . the widespread fragility of social relations – the most important , but not only , job creation – has been slowly becoming intolerable to an increasing proportion of the population in many advanced countries , not only in europe . crony capitalism could be reconstituted after world war ii because it buttressed the three necessary kinds of rules : social security that served as principal power , at least in advanced countries ; keynesian tools to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and universal high-wage policy aimed at stimulating widespread consumption , without which the genius of capitalism ’s message of mass production does not work . and there can not be a stable economic order , at least not in democratic countries – as long as electorates reject its underpinnings .
at the same time , in an age of internet rumors and fake news , the world today may be looking a bit unmoored from history . inflation targeting has other effects , too , that seems more to come to the minds of central bankers today . in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised that policymakers should announce a target rate on inflation , because it communicates the central bank ’s stated intentions , ” ” which would “ minimize uncertainty . ” the announced rates should be substantially positive-sum , writing , because if elected officials sought to get it near zero , any mistake could produce a deflation that “ might put the financial system at risk and precipitate an economic contraction . ” that might create a sense of real risk , which may be the main risk .
berkeley – with its ambitious , made in china 2025 strategy , china has made clear its goal of securing global economic leadership in high-tech industries . and it has deployed a variety of methods , including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers , as a condition of joint ventures with chinese partners , evasion of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies by american and other commercial trading partners . this places it in direct competition with the united states – which currently leads in those industries – at what is emerging as an undeclared but escalating cold war over technology with both business and military applications . in fact , china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations . with its investments in such dual-use technologies , china is looking more than ever to compete commercially with america ; it also seeks more military and geopolitical power .
the berlin wall collapsed , bringing germany ’s reunification and yugoslavia into disintegrating . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia , which – together with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – – – – – then anchored themselves firmly in the west , by joining both nato and the eu . already , chinese financial markets have suffered , while those in the us held its own up against them . to be sure , a trade war today would harm all economies , and should have managed to grow . but an american – which is relatively less reliant on foreign markets possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than other countries – would do better than most others under a contracting global economy .
most importantly , the fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting throughout europe . the treaty would promote stability in the iranian economy , while contributing to stabilizing europe , our currency . ratification would also give us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) – that is , we should ever need it . ratification would also give us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) – the ecb , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) back into markets . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , just as we are working our way out of a bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) , and a return to markets .
in europe , legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the rest of the world lacks even knotty safeguards . all organizations should invest in ethics officers , or some sort of review process , involving people who can assess all of the implications of an old great-sounding idea . after reviewing that issue with legislators in a few countries over the last few months , it has become plain abundantly clear that many are not fully capable of assuming the myriad issues that need to be considered . it is a difficult topic to deal with , and it is getting worse , being hampered by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . all organizations should be investing with regard to ethics officers , or to some sort of review process involving people who can evaluate all of the implications for an old sounding idea .
traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but it must navigate a difficult path , because both points of view have significant public support . bangladeshi government sympathies come closer to the shahbag protesters than to hifazat counter-protesters . but , all too often , clichés become established , because they are true . the young people in the shahbag are mostly urban , the educated , and the middle class ; hifazat brace its support mainly from the rural poor .
even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it is not working equally well for everyone . true bombshell , notwithstanding his abrupt realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system , his true bombshell has been clear – not far behind schedule , but right now . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none has been adopted widely enough to challenge the existing order . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none has been adopted broadly enough to challenge the existing order . even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone .
before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations between cold war superpowers hit rock bottom . nonetheless , reagan and i were able to form a reservoir of constructive spirit , through the continued outreach and face-to-face interaction . economic constraints and the chernobyl disaster were what helped spur us to take action . so far , why has the great recession and the disastrous meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan failed to have any comparable answer today ? what seems to have been lacking today are leaders with the insecurities and vision to build the confidence required to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
across europe , it is not only british prime minister tony blair who is accused of “ presidentialism ” nowadays . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , does not even enjoy being labeled prime minister . august is the traditional month when parliaments recess ever took place for a summer . it offers a moment to examine why for them to be so enfeebled . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charge in the current german electoral campaign .
second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system so much safer . indeed , by drawing attention to internal structural reform across the developing world , the risk is that the current approach promises will shift complacency on short-term capital flows , increasing rather than lowering systemic risk . first , a new set of external disciplines is coming hand-in-hand with a particular , neo-liberal paradigm of economic development that remains untested , if not loses , development strategies that worked in the past , and others could work in the future . as long as capital flows remain large relative to national governments ’ liquid assets and ease easily , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular boom-bust cycles and bust cycles . narrowing of national autonomy in formulating development strategies is a cost to which developing countries are unlikely to receive adequate rewards .
many news stories of female ceos and other high-achieving women are encoded with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked into their new roles ( and hence are not being deserving ) , inherited from male relatives or spouses ( and therefore do not actually hold the reins of power ) , or would not be there for long . these clichés not just undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in the case of the ceos , they also reduce their value to their companies . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is being weakened . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is impaired . for example , cnn covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” issued a phrase with some suggestive intones , and one that would never be applied with a person at the top for whom , presumably , hard work , talents , ambition , and dedication constitute more than “ knack ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . and all of these clichés have been reproduced in the coverage of barra ’s appointment at gm .
the dynasties come and go , but , in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding . how long this will last is anyone ’s guess , then . state-owned enterprises remain favored , books are burning , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy within any domain of chinese life . yet , so far , the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade has been disappointing . few observers have expected china to turn abruptly into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 .
more recently , elections in the postcommunist countries of europe brought groups to power whose democratic credentials were the dubious , to say the least . this is not to compare hamas with either of these political forces . nevertheless , one must wonder about a winning movement , with quite a few elected members in israeli prisons and others not likely to get permission to enter the country where they were elected in order to prevent a new parliament from being able to function appropriately . all of this tells us three things about democracy : respect for one of these political forces . first , elections seldom do we settle around fundamental problems ; they can not be fought on their own .
social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and outrage at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia may jangle at the breast of ordinary russians free of the slightest dissonance . yet only one such “ patriot ” was given pride in being permitted to perform this act . that is why lugovoi is being asked to his autograph . surely , we are confronted with the mystique of the idea that it has proven to be so unrealizable to others , so unyielding toward every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length . this should not be taken seriously , of course , to mean that the polish patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement concede a form of fairness for britain ’s accusations .
· eliminating barriers to opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize malfeasance . and because inequality of opportunity lowers social mobility from one generation to another creates persistent traps . moreover , given that inequality largely begins in childhood , governments must invest far more in delivering high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . only by supporting the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that we are not passed on to the next . · such investment will require additional domestic resources , including education or development .
italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions . some , it should be emphasized . other reforms – in particular , a political reform – will be hotly called into question . spain ’s labor costs have been declining substantially , relative to gdp , than any country in europe since world war ii . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions .
two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families borrowed freely , have long since burst . instead , they have been cutting back on spending . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures have averaged just 0.8 % over the last five years – the most robust and protracted slowdowns in consumer demand growth during the post-world war ii era . understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , america ’s consumers did not carry the bait from their monetary and fiscal authorities . but the aftershocks linger : household-debt upheavals were still hovering at 113 % of disposable personal incomes in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and the personal-saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( versus 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) .
while his motivation , at least partly , may have been a yearning for social justice , perón was in effect bribing beneficiaries to back his own ascent to power and wealth . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even though a move toward autarky eventually undermined its growth , causing the country to lose its status among the world ’s richest . while his motivation , at least partly , may have been a yearning for social justice , perón was in effect , in effect bribing beneficiaries to back its own ascent up in power and wealth . with his fine and outspoken wife acting as “ “ “ “ “ the wife of the people ” ” at his side , perón was managed to claim voters , in 1946 , that , as president , he would fundamentally transform the country . perón ’s rule nationalized banks and exceedingly railroads , raised the minimum wage and improved living standards , cut the national debt ( for a while , to a lesser extent ) , reviving the economy .
eventually , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , because the economic case for it is weak in its absence of its usual credibility challenges . the cap will most likely become even more politically controversial as brazil recovers , as it does . it is not hard to imagine the next administration ’s coming – whenever it comes to february – disperceiving the cap as an obstacle to more rapid economic growth . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future .
part of this may be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering stock-market rout . here is one message from the markets worth peddling , even for non-investors : political confidence may be at an all-time low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-shocked by the latest recession and dredging of the futures market ; but judging the market-level behavior years ahead tend to resemble a stable and prosperous 1950 versus 1989 . while experts spent the past two years propounding this thesis , the market has quietly recovered an older , more common-sense policy rule : prosperity is good for profits , and hence good for share prices . a strange conventional wisdom , elaborated in the us during the inflationary 1970s and 1980s , : that robust economic growth and declining unemployment were bad for share prices .
elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) has used its agenda over a few years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , that task assumed critical importance , owing to the country ’s opening to democracy . a legislative advisory program is another tool business may use to influence public policy . * sound economic analysis and background papers are readily available for technocrats and others to study ; * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for study ;
the imf had anticipated that thailand and others would achieve positive growth by 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand ’s case ) . the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion of everything ) to indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors attempting to withdraw their money . the currencies had collapsed , and the banking sector collapsed . the imf had anticipated that thailand and others would achieve positive gdp growth before 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand ’s case ) . now the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points .
nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an attempt at diversion ; it has also sent the message that the country ’s domestic-policy impasse is not its fault . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right . obama has performed far better on foreign policy than they have on domestic politics , which is all the more surprising in view of the soft hand deals he handled : an america that has lost regard with a lack of moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model . so , to be sure , expect plenty of foreign-policy news in the months ahead . the obama administration knows , as it stands , an iron law of american policy – “ “ “ ’s ’s ’s ’s economy , stupid ” by its allies . ”
the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have been debating for a decade or more is currently exploding . at the same time , europeans will see dismantling their welfare states and social-security systems ; the cherished “ european model ” ” of pensions , medical care , and unemployment benefits seem to have replaced the despised and widely feared “ american model . ” the root cause of all these developments is europe ’s population shrinkage . yet it is only one facet of europe ’s urgent need for importing peoples from africa and asia . this is not to be said , to say the europeans crave america ’s rigors , ’s less cosseted social conditions , but because it is the only way european governments stick afloat financially .
they feel confirmed in their conviction that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of business . the trouble is : usually , it will . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short periods of military intervention are imperfect and remotely efficient requires a level of international solidarity that is created only under extraordinary circumstances . and they watch to galee at how europe , japan , and america , rather than acting together , display a distinct weaknesses in france . should the rogue state be allowed to strip away its provocations ?
london – a flawed understanding of what drives us economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . european policymakers obsessively pursue national “ competitiveness , ” and genuinely appear to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . but economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is being driven by productivity growth , rather than its capacity to capture an increasing share of global markets . this largely explains why germany has been routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” us economy . while import prices must obviously be financed through exports , the focus on trade competitiveness overlooks europe ’s underlying problem , very weak productivity growth .
and the more important battery cells achieve the overall value of an electric car , the stronger the agglomeration effect will likely be . this would be a disquieting shift . china currently controls the entire value chain of its electric cars , including the delivery of cobalt , an essential raw materials in battery manufacturing . as a result , china generates 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells , the united states accounts for 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigaftory ” “ ” in nevada ” ) , with europe just 4 % . nonetheless , europe could still develop battery production through recycling old biofuels , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
but breakthrough technology companies like apple , facebook , and twitter also rely on people who previously had access to well-financed education systems . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to modify their thinking – in particular , their fiscal thinking – to put the people first . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to modify their thinking – in particular , their fiscal thinking , so that they can put the people in charge . and while there is increasing “ tech ” for the good ” sector in europe , this will succeed only if support is backed by up-to-date infrastructure , which in general calls for government outlays . what governments must do is reduce bureaucratic red tape so that entrepreneurs can take greater risks .
for example , it is untenable in rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment effectively to block an agreement to open up new markets for service and manufactures , which account for more than 90 % of the world 's employment . in developing countries , pro-trade voice leaders could help to turn a debate on the opportunities of global integration , rather than emphasizing its exceptions . all countries will have to give ; no country can be expected to carry the burden alone . the initiative will need to come from the top when a case is made in each country for more open markets and for the help that it gets available to those facing a adjustment . pro-trade forces can talk to the political process as needed .
iran has already countenanced the removal of maliki in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a broader policy reconsideration is needed to ease it is a threat , hence . but iranian critics of intervention seem to believe that there is a middle way . iran has already countenanced the removal of maliki in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a broader policy reconsideration is needed to impinge on it , so be it . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible but worries are mounting that regional overreach might trigger a long list of dangerous consequences . inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq , and a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states , does not necessarily translate into lost iranian influence .
in houston , the authorities have been ready for harvey part due to lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 was killed as a result of harvard ’s treatment of men . the impact of the lessons that were being learned in india makes all the more striking . in october 2013 , the odisha ’s residents were taken alerted early to the arrival of cyprus phailin . by the time the storm made landfall , many people had already evacuated .
for catalan separatists , this means that they now confront what the late political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . if catalonia wishes to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the freedom to leave catalonia ? and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors in order to prevent that from taking place ? given this , as an status quo power is unstable and a independence impossible , many have come to believe that the only viable solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term .
any deal between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both parties to accept concessions that leaders on both sides will need to convince their respective publics to accept . even that a futile scenario may be optimistic , as it assumes that talks should take off the ground – an impossible feat , as long as israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not just unjust ; they are a violation of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( america , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution has demanded that israel immediately and completely abdicated all settlement activity in the occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with settling the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the matter , jason greenblatt , seem to have understood this .
the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated with the global economy . the remarkable communiqué from the world ’s leaders attending the bri forum in beijing last month has committed more than 30 countries and international agencies to promote “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” and female empowerment . in doing so , however , there is no question that china is openly challenging the foundations of the liberal order . and they are unprepared to give the basis for their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called for one belt , one road ) – which xi christendom “ a century project ” – is a true reflections of china ’s strategic choice to cement commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , to take advantage of the opportunity to stockpile “ soft power . ”
part ii of a stalled paper , the eu ’s charter of fundamental rights , can be deferred . part iii of a blocked constitutional treaty is merely a compendium of current eu treaties , which is why such treaties will remain in effect regardless of whether they are part of a new document , they may decoupled from the rest . to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen without clearly defined fundamental rights . the question , then , is whether new leaders , as early as next month , succeeded in a new effort to adopt the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires . the best way forward , then , is whether new leaders , as soon as next month , succeeded in a new effort to adopt the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires .
this is true of the nations of europe . yet , for europe there is an even more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance is necessary today more than ever , and it is far stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . in the long run , this is fundamentally an alliance of values : liberty , democracy and the rule of law . as the world changes and opens up across the boundaries of a nation-state and culture that values values will govern the twenty-first century ? forget the short-term politics of electoral politics , there or here , that is the opposite .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , the fact is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . similarly , just a few months ago , two police vice foreign vice premier , transportation minister and former heads of state were all brought to court indictments for sale state assets to private firms at a loss . taken together , these cases highlight the very scope of state capture – a form of corruption , rife in the former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors use insiders to win control over public institutions and assets .
a minority coalition that included the greens would compel the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policies that would have been futile otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing ; it would not necessarily be a bad thing . it would then have been able to contain merkel in her red-green affinity . and merkel herself will struggle to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp , so that she can not become addicted to it . the fdp , for its part , would want to engage such a government for precisely that reason .
although beijing and shanghai are comparatively prosperous , there remains much poverty . chinese corporations ’ high levels of debt could act as a source of financial instability , even though a few officials stressed the alarm about the fact that they were not concerned . indeed , china is still a low-income country , with its per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , around one fourth in the united states . it is revealing that it will achieve the five-year plan ’s target of eliminating extreme poverty by 2020 – which calls for reducing the number of impoverished people by 55 million – a poverty line defined as just over $ 354 per year , or just under one dollar per day . one us government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used his loan card to purchase some $ 1 billion worth of goods that they could not obtain at home ( while acknowledging the irony that some of these european and american branded goods are actually manufactured in china ) .
yet those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and an historic track of failed one-party regimes might benefit by reading leon trotsky to know something about revolutions . dictatorships are considered to be indestructible before they fall , trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable once they are overthrown . yet the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – national failure and civic chaos – could be a far worse outcome than the status quo suggests . another explanation is fear of contemplating contemplating contemplating unknown back then .
neusoft ’s devices looked like little personal computers with sensors connections . after moving on to produce car audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , began hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high costs of the specialized x-ray service , mri , ultrasound , and smelning machines ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . neusoft began as a low-cost competitor to the trumpian company . suddenly , the new deal was produced by the new business . liu realized that neusoft could connect standard intel chips and its own imaging software for a wide variety of digital sensors . neusoft ’s devices looked like little personal computers with sensors .
inside germany , there have been endless debates over german identity over what one historian called the continual dispute of what being german might entail . but , in foreign-policy terms , postwar west germany – and , subsequently , a reunified germany once adopted – was utterly predictable : never toward the west ; always for more europeans , it would . princeton – by now , it is entirely ignorant that germany is calling the shots not only in the european union , but throughout all of europe . now the “ berlin republic ” is hugely secure about its identity – and ostensibly at sea in its dealings with the world . there are , to be sure , structural reasons for this turn of events .
whereas only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive for four or more years , those that do manage to produce breakthroughs innovations now under way . us tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through decades of robust growth , is notorious for holding back brilliant blunders . as he put it , “ “ “ we should have the courage to take risks ” when thoughtful risks … . we must pardon mistakes that have been made because somebody has been attempting to acts aggressively in the company ’s interest . ” startup companies exemplifies the potential benefits of risk-taking . and the oversight that warped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that fluid motion could efficiently transporting warming within earth , – has proved to be critical of understanding tectonics and continental drift .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , the question is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . with netanyahu having spent the most time in office , the biggest threat comes from within his command .
according to putin , he rooted for trump ( but of course did not interfere in trump ’s own name ) , owing to a combination of a desire to improve the bilateral relationship . now , even more than ever before , putin needs america ’s friendship . though he was overwhelmingly reelected as president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since plummeted to just over 45 % . russians resent mounting economic insecurity brought about by sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 ( a move that originally bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . likewise , popular discontent in russia was inflamed by the authorities ’ widely discredited pension reform , which includes an increase in the retirement age .
to be sure , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represents ) returns from capital market liberalization : they make the money as capital flow in because it flows out and into a restructuring that does occur during the ensuing havoc . in south korea , the imf urged the sale of the country ’s banking system to american investors , despite the fact that koreans were managing their own economies impressively for at least four decades at a time when higher growth , more stability , and not yet being able to complete the wrenching scandals that have signaled u.s. financial markets with such frequency . in some cases , american firms bought up the banks , held on it until korea recovered , and then resold them , reaping billions in capital gains . whether american investors had more banking expertise in emerging markets might be debatable ; that they had greater expertise in the form of tax avoidance was not . in its rush to have westerners bought themselves , the imf neglected some detail : ensuring that south koreans were able to recapture at least a fraction of these gains through taxation .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of the great philosophers of my generation , died . at the time , parfit was not a household name , either . of all philosophers i have known since starting a work on advancing philosophy ’s web site , parfit was the most prominent living anglophone philosopher . getting into the philosophically responsible argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he thought of every response i could set up to his arguments , held several possible answers , and realized the objections of every reply as much as those objections would not be . just a year earlier , in a poll on the guiding philosophy web site , parfit was the most important living anglophone philosopher . parfit was , not a household name , either .
even a fundamental test like a cat smay would require transport to another regional hospital . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the biggest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . in fact , few therapeutic and diagnostic options have been available in any way . on paper , the hospital appears well staffed and inadequately equipped , but on my rounds there , i have discovered the halls and appear deserted and barren . equally harmful are government sensitivity to its own policy failures and the stigma attached to a disease that is often sexually transmitted .
comparing the two simulations suggest that large export flows of palestinian labor to israel are reducing the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by placing upward pressure on wages , undermining its competitiveness . these simulations have also suggested that continued reliance on labor-intensive manufacturing outcomes amid lower the palestinian economy ’s growth potential than does a development strategy based on exporting goods . yet levels of average incomes in both the west bank and gaza will remain significantly lower under the latter strategy than they would currently be if the israeli labor market is gradually reopened for the palestinian workforce . this confirms the enormous short-run welfare costs to the palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor markets . at the same time , what trade policies might stimulate exports of goods , rather than labor ?
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ? addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 after 30 years in power – many hoped that the rate of economic decline that he oversaw would soon be reversed . but , a year and a half later , the us economy shows scant signs of recovery , owing to the ongoing currency crisis .
clearly , the chinese were politically tone-deaf when choosing an architect whose name carried such dark historical connotations . but , in this case , when a son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serves his regime , which seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , is it not willingly reflecting these sins ? totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese – were eager to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world to their superiority . speer name seemed not likely to matter so much as the officials chosen by him . china believes that it had found its own model for development and modernization , and its rulers regard the games similarly as a vehicle for selling ” their model to a global audience .
in the recent dutch election , liberals might argue for upholding the rights of migrants , because they respect and tolerance are the traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can take pride . these are examples of what the great philosopher jürgen habermas has called peaceful patriotism ( others have called it civil-patriotism ) . this philosophical position has practical implications for this philosophical position . macron may proudly call himself a french patriot , because france surrendered world liberal , égalité , and fraternité . the way to square this seeming circle is through the observation that we love our motherland not because of a faulty sense of ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for lofty , universal values .
to succeed , the icc will need to overcome intense resistance , owing not just to dictators and their handling of war warlords , but even from its elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump . in april , when the icc concluded whether to follow through on its own inquiry into war crimes in afghanistan , including whatever it may have been perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration revoked a visa given court chief prosecutor . carrying out such investigations effectively and not delay would reestablish the icc ’s credibility and bolster its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , gambian attorney general , gambian attorney fatou bensouda – must take recent criticism as an motivation , demonstrating that they are up to the task at hand . if the icc is to fulfill the role it has been created , it can have no strong impact on such pressure , or allow its undue performance to continue .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates for the last two years . the reasons are obvious : because the world has witnessed a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries are maintaining ultra-low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-growing emerging economies are the unwinding of the expansionary policies they adopted during recessions . this asymmetry has plowed enormous capital inflows from the former to the latter , which are likely to continue . compounding the problem , one of capitalist countries ’ expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues a paramount global currency . emerging-market economies worry that this flurry of capital will drive their currencies to the real exchange rate , apart from fueling the current-account and asset bubbles that past experience has taught them , is a certainty that future crises provide .
according to the world health organization , it causes blindness in roughly 250,000-500,000 preschool children per year , some half of them dying within just 12 months . moreover , in some countries , the lack of vitamin a is also a major driver of high maternal mortality rates during pregnancy and childbirth . greenpeace , along with other organizations opposed to using genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of an beta carotene , which is converted in a human body to vitamin a. moore ’s mortality figures seem to be on high ground , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , especially in parts of africa and southeast asia . the weakness also increases susceptibility to diseases like measles , remains a major cause of deaths from young children , even though one that is declining as a result of vaccinations .
in 1829 , john stuart mill made a key intellectual leap in figuring out in ways to fight what he called the general gluts . mill saw that excess demand for some particular set of assets in financial markets reflects an excess supply of goods and services in product markets , in turn generating the excess supply of workers in labor markets . so what lessons does history have to teach as to our current global economic predicament ? the implication of this was clear . in 1829 , john stuart mill made a key intellectual leap in figuring out how to combat what he called the general lie ” of ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” of “ the wall street , his view is that we can not concoct a problem of protection at all times .
of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems alone . it is the chasm seen in areas as diverse as healthcare , education , and combating climate change . that ’s why chan zuckerberg ’s initiative was designed for maximum flexibility , enabling funds to be channeled into non-profits , channeled into private investment , or used to help influence political debates . no single actor , then , is it a government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or group of investors , can solve today ’s truly great problems on its own . similarly , bec pledged to foster the work of others by adopting “ a flexible , jump-starting approach , providing the seeds , angel , and series of investments with the expectation that once these investments are de-risked , traditional commercial capital would invest later in the ” phase .
american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed with the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class . the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place where a person ’s economic destiny has not depended entirely on where it did so . but a more cynical view permeates populist logic , namely that in its excessive adherence to globalism , america has sown the seeds of its own political and economic ruin . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks he can do something about it . the goal is not just to bring home ” american jobs , but to create a system that expands american dominance .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and american forces and reintroducing some tactical nuclear weapons in the south . yet more conventional power would add little to capable forces already on the ground , bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would merely make the two sides more anxious ( and offshore america ’s marine nuclear forces have already pack sufficient punch in order to reinforce deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy on the assumption that this could enhance communication , thus diminishing the nuclear threat . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist administration will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation that it needs to remain in power . but , under such a scenario , north korea could hold relationships hostage to such outsize demands as withdrawing american forces from the region , as well as to economic and energy aid to prop up the regime .
thus , the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – took a left-right form . in both countries , the far right lacked breeding ground it had elsewhere . in greece , the main political fault lines were the austerity policies imposed by the european institutions and the international monetary fund . in both countries , the far right lacked breeding ground it has elsewhere . in spain , the main political fault line has been the austerity policies imposed by the european institutions and the international monetary fund .
on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to exclude his nascent nuclear program , in exchange for an end to the pariah status . british and american negotiators secretly met with libyan counterparts to resolve the case from the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over poland , scotland , and any other issue of terrorism . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . eight years later , pinned the american predator drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise .
botswana ’s astounding annual per capita income growth rates of around 13 % over the past decade have been accompanied by a decrease from almost six children per woman to just below four . why is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standards of living ? widespread population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also human capital . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity goes up , because poor families with many children are unable to invest sufficiently in educating every child to ensure that future adults benefit from a crucial determinant of economic success . the math is straightforward : still , more people means that ( on average ) everybody gets less .
like it or not , they can not do that as a brigade of flower children ; they need to pick leaders who can speak for them to negotiate for them . the modernizers need to form a coherent force – and , most likely , a political party – rather than simply relying on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of crowds to govern the country . but this does imply an understanding that even a democracy has many of the rules , ideally rules that a supermajority has chosen not to be outright ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives who might argue and negotiate in person , reflect the overall preferences of those who elect them . that does not mean abandoning the causes that are fighting . that may sound slightly more like the old system .
rising incomes ; growing health-care demand , childcare , and tvet care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new job opportunities . in fact , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers – and that sector could comprise one-quarter of future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of men ’s potential job gains ) . given the sectoral and occupational distribution of these opportunities , women may be moderately better positioned to take advantage of them . rising incomes ; growing health-care demand , childcare , and tvet data in aging societies ; and investments in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new job opportunities . this scant advantage of women reflects the robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where women are well represented .
directly across the aisle from me , putin sat between a one-time dissident cellist and the conductor mstislav rostropovich , and his equally renowned wife , opera diva galina vishnevskaya . i myself once witnessed putin ’s courting culture . it was new year eve 2003 , during a concert at moscow ’s newly opened music house . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store – thrilled besieged by such cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were evidently flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and its closeness to power ) .
by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to drop , producer prices had already been falling for the past eight months , and remained negative during a period of at least 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after 39 months . but gdp growth soon began to deteriorate rapidly . in an effort to revive growth in a troubled global environment and buffer exports from the impact of the asian financial crisis , china ’s government loosened monetary and fiscal policy starting in november 1997 . but it was too little too late , given congress and revised downward expectations for growth . an obvious lesson is that the government was supposed to switch from loosening earlier and , more forcefully , in office .
so have we now moved from piketty ’s r > g world to blanchard , the < g world of r & d ? the answer is no , and a yes , yes . the views of piketty and blanchard can actually be reconciled , as they discuss very different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on the rate on low-risk government bonds , piketty is worried about reversing his return to risky capital investments . so , too , have we now moved from piketty ’s r the world of r & d to blanchard of the r < g world ?
by contrast , compared to their likely future losses , european banks raised relatively little capital only recently – and much of it has since been creative accounting , rather than genuinely loss-absorbing shareholder equity . yet , in that case , why all of the fuss ? the banks have failed , and tumbling dominos is no indication . perhaps the risk that greek debt restructuring would produce a financial meltdown has always been minimal , taking quiescent markets on hold . but that is not because banks have been ready themselves by raising more capital .
moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that the short period of high unemployment does not drive workers to sell their homes , or even to cars . thus , in the scandinavian countries , as opposed to , say , germany and the u.s. , governments , not individual companies are responsible for most of the social benefits . that way , an economically irrational lock-in impact , whereby workers simply can not afford changes in jobs , is avoided . and , instead of solving all kinds of economically created problems , laid-off workers can focus on locating new , more future-oriented jobs . a system protects not only the unemployed , who may continue to pay their mortgages and interest , but also , indirectly , the banks , because their loans to households are repaid even in recession times .
while it has failed to bolster growth for financial globalization , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . the sad irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has gone missing . public investment and basic social protections can help turn this around , by creating millions of jobs . but , having sustained currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate vast reserves in order to protect themselves in the face of increased global financial volatility . meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the great depression .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . one aspect of this supposedly moral and cultural decline worries the family : “ to attack a family institution , to respect it with disdain or to question its important role , the pope and the grand imam of the state , is one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” the document asserts that family is the indomitable nucleus of societies and humanist ” and “ “ humanity ” and “ “ is vital ” in bringing children to the world , raising them , educating them and providing them with robust moral formation and domestic safety .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under the age of 25 – africa has the world ’s youngest region . yet it is widely recognized that young people are often left behind . they frequently face insufficient economic opportunities , and they can also be socially or politically excluded . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the un ’s sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will become impossible .
russia has ’s economic decline has heightened its concern for the rise of china . according to feng yujun of fudan university , the most important relationship with the us is the one with america . while trade has soared , investment lags , and russia ranks only a tenth among china ’s export markets . in the nineteenth century , not a country taken more out of china than russia did , and contemporary demographics in the far east – where russians number six million , and the chinese-owned population of up to 120 million – is a source of anxiety in moscow . as the economist recently reported , it is russia that worries about becoming an alliance ’s junior partner , more dependent on china than china , lie on russia .
wolf then snarls that if this were not the lamb , then it was his father ; after all , he moves immediately into action . florence – in phaedrus ’ well-known paper fable of wolf and lamb , wolf easily could eat out with no word but prioritizing his “ reason . ” first , he scolds a lamb , because he muddles through with his drinking water ( though upstream wolf was ) . then he argues that last year , a lamb was hailed as bad names ( yet the lamb was only just six months old ) . wolf of justifications ” for his evil actions sound a luxury that he permitted himself .
washington , virginia , virginia , went to the polls to leave one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided over the election handing over to a military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing promising to smash a corrupt establishment . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . i am not speaking , therefore , of the 2016 us presidential election that placed donald trump in power ; but , rather , brazil ’s 2018 election , won by the name trump of the tropics ; jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
she then quickly proceeded to present a very celebratory address about the heroism of american soldiers “ fighting for freedom ” abroad . but then there was something strange about the whole event , just when there is something strange in the tea party movement itself . this latest surge of american populism is being financed by some extraordinarily affluent men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting us taxes for the super-rich and abolishing us government subsidies to the poor , such as social welfare and president barack obama ’s own health-care plan . that agenda might have looked like a selfish , if understandable , from the standpoint of an oil billionaire . it seemed an odd – and still much offensive – transition : from king ’s brilliant plea to civilian ignorance to palin ’s sentimental clichés on the part of our army .
while the level of their religious commitment differs , so does they share a powerful , emotional , law-based attachment to beliefs that give to francis i have considerable political clout . starting his own papacy finds populist governments in a fragile situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . of course , they all have their own identities and strengths , but they will miss chávez ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s global clout as well as his subsidies . moreover , they govern the countries in which catholics have an overwhelming majority . to be sure , latin america will undoubtedly be one of francisco ’s priorities .
the us must lead the world , through deed , and by example . but obama can not do it alone – and so far neither the american public nor america ’s congress appears committed to re-connecting with his own moral compass . it should be unacceptable ; for example , for the us congress to block the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees detainees cleared by the national-security house judiciary committee . the response to a second major question shaping the world of the future – whether china will reclaim the stature of its own economic momentum – appears to be “ no , ” ” ” at least in the short term , with most specialists agreeing that china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s export-led – and investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its potential . so far , however , obama can not do it alone – and so far neither the american public nor american congress appears committed to reunite behind his own moral compass .
in addition , someday we will know for all of this – for example , because of the sequencing of the entire genome – the rarer genomic variation that is interaction with therapeutic responses or spillover effects . here , too , substantive and remarkable progress has been made all over the past couple of years . genotyping can now enter office in less than 20 minutes , and over time will get even faster . to fill the prescription for a drug with an known pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can obtain fast genotyping to determine suitable dose , drug treatment , or predilection for serious spillover effects . this has paved the way for next-generation pharmacies , which does not expect .
from banks ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson was the need for a strong national government to incur the potential cost of rescue provision . the financial crisis produced a new response to where the largest competitive advantages lie . it is no longer best left to be subject to the most favorable regulatory regime , but rather to the fact that the state has deepest pockets . very large banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable . the american role is large enough to handle behemoths like the bank of america or citigroup .
the number of species that were known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 is increasing as taxonomists describe new species from the skeletal remains they find in caves , for example , where bones survive . still , we have conducted comparable analyses for the destiny of the caribbean and indian ocean islands following initial human contact , but large numbers of extinctions occurred there , too . these searches are far from complete . early european exploration likely continued this rapid pace of extinction . linneaus invented the modern process of naming species in the middle 1700 ’s , though naming failed under way until the tranquility following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 .
the plight of millions of refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden on countries across the region and europe . syria , iraq , yemen , and libya are all dealing with each other ’s mixed civil and proxy wars . the islamic state ( isis ) may have lost its territorial dimension ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to pose an ongoing terrorist threat . the islamic state ( isis ) may be losing its territorial dimension ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . the iran nuclear pact at best manages one aspect of the iranian regime , at only a limited length .
nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to widen , showing that we still have a long way to go . that year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africans , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly wildfires have taken lives , destroying billions of dollars of wealth in greece , sweden , the united states , and even russia . droughts have been hitting back in kenya and somalia ; and both afghanistan and south africa have faced major water shortages . such movements have made the space for forward-thinking politicians to take action .
the stakes for both africa and the us are high . we owe it to our descendants – and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs , who are already leading the charge , in order to get it right . the decisions we make now will have implications for generations to come . this is the start of an important dialogue between now and then . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with america will make it vital for africa ’s continued growth and development .
paris – some countries are naturally at a ease with conception and reality of strategic strength . such was clearly the case of france under louis xiv , the sun king in seventeenth-century europe , and such is the case today in china , whose leadership is comfortable with neoclassical europe ’s ballooning games . on economic terms , india ’s confidence was boosted by the way the western world now looked at it with a mixture of respect and greed : “ what kinds of deals could i strike with such an emerging market , whose population would soon be the largest of any country in the world ? ” by contrast , india is clearly in a very different category ; in some ways , it is the world ’s most enlightening comparison . yet , to comprehend india ’s geopolitical and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in 1920 .
views about social mobility are non-uniform across the political spectrum or across geographic regions . in both the us and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on the matters of economic policy believe that equal opportunities for all children are created , and that a free-market economy in their home countries is just a fair one . these people favor government intervention because they believe , left to their own devices , markets will fail to ensure fairness , and may even generate more inequality . likewise , the reverse holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country where actual mobility rates are low – including the southeastern asian states , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
once upon a time , there had been numerous relatively small market department-store chains and other corporate retailers , as well as outlets in few towns . those headquarters brought incomes to their city by providing back-office services to their networks of shops . but retail consolidation , driven partly by walmart and amazon , dealt a deathblow to many of these companies . faced with a run , the disruption can not just be caused by industrial closures . grocer , a coffee store , and barber going out of business , leaving everybody to turn the eu into a ghost town .
the republican party ’s proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade or so , unable to plug that loophole with its revenue-enhancing health-care reform plan , or the $ 1.2 trillion that could have been expected of a single bat . the house republicans now face a choice between bypassing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to the public-debt debt ) and pursuing a far more modest reform . the first scenario is unlikely , for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to a reckless build-up of government debt . the bat has insufficient support even among republicans and would violate world trade organization rules .
if a country saves more but investment remains uncorrected , then it borrows fewer ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add up . but that did not happen in such a scenario , and it has not . taken together , its net export position and the current-account balance improves . such resilience will be tested over the longer run , albeit owing to the prevailing fiscal and external imbalances , which remain unaffected by stated data revision .
first , when it comes to climate change , what matters is simply that you do some things . new analysis shows that only 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – actually meet their pledges , most of which are promised by very little . the 2015 paris climate agreement provides a telling illustration of this point . countries made grandiose commitments to keep the global increase in temperature well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all their promises together add up to less than 1 % of what ’s needed . countries managing it can take away with scammers of data .
as a result , vast areas of our planet , currently home to more than billions of people , could become unlivable . the earlier unfccc conferences attempted to reach legally binding agreements on emission cuts , at least to those of the industrialized countries that produced most of the co2 now in the atmosphere . instead , the copenhagen accord merely asked countries to together voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by specific amounts . now , thawing siberian permafrost releases vast quantities of co2 . that strategy faltered – in part owing to american intransigence under president george w. bush ’s administration – and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the us never signed up ) .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy and compulsory consultations in the event of a threat to any state ’s security . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine might have been averted . though i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it is very difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 coming to a close . of course , political leaders are also to blame for filing away these and other “ europeanization ” of european ideas ” at the hands of the eu . but blaming one must also share the blame for the entire european political class , civil-society institutions , as well as news media .
when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , which was asked to lead energy talks at a un summit , has integrated an extensive body of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , which will run an industry workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant . but , as europe ’s leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe the largest onshore wind farm ; poland is producing electric-farm buses ; and austria is led when it comes to green buildings .
prejudice has tended to fall as participation increases . one result of the agreement is a paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with the distinction . ” because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are used to behave very different kinds of sorts , and so distinguish those differences that might hurt the country from those that will not . tolerance of another people ’s religion is the price paid for tolerance of one ’s own . this has been in no one ’s interest to thwart this live-and let-live pragmatism for very long .
based on our own experiences -- in mexico , which has opened up foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which has been a front aid donor and a major source of private investment in developing countries -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and rigid . this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from achieving their full potential . if small businesses could expand beyond village square , they could power the growth of their countries in a better position than any aid agency would . entrepreneurial energies are already there : visit last december , tiniest city in the poorest african country on a market-based day , and you will see the private sector in action . this is one reason why when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program administrator mark malloch brown have asked the us to head a new commission on the private sector and development , we agreed .
there is no guarantee that he wo n’t repeat that gambit . and yet , even if it does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to undertaking frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bringing trump to the table . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he was having a good correction on the us president ’s psyche . so far , he has proven highly effective at keeping reagan alive and the upcoming track summit . whatever way the second summit takes place , the north korean regime will still reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . all of this has produced emigration of an increasingly appealing option , particularly for the young , raising the specter of a brain drain . it has also turned the heat toward simmering social unrest , which has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been specifically intended to preempt popular protest ) . meanwhile , the state fails to deliver basic security : with the olympic ice-skating medalist medalist , denis ten , was murdered in broad light of kazakhstan ’s largest cities , almaty , for seeking to prevent its car flies from being stolen .
under the current system of incentives , the authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity growth will , in fact , destroy the jobs being occupied by the saudis . the challenge of job creation for saudis may seem like riches problems . some would argue that it is up to all the kingdom to substitute itself for foreign workers from existing positions . but whenever the kingdom attempted to curtail public-sector hiring , unemployment soared . but simple substitution will not , either .
the entire point of money is that it enables parties to transact , without having to engage in barter . but for the money to have value and generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously . so , too , is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency could substitute for fiat money . the notion that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together not just contradicts an extremely conception of money ; it is entirely idiotic . in america , the reason not using euros or yen alongside dollars is obvious : doing so would make an economy far less efficient .
minimizing the fallout will require both parties to recognize that in an interconnected world , efforts to bolster their own positions are becoming self-defeating as they undermine global stability and dynamism . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less than cutting and drying up than the cold war did . the trade war has cast that lesson into sharp relief , and from there . cool warfare is at risk of undermining such efforts , because confronting america at the negotiating table requires that china strengthen its own position mostly . that means ensuring that the disruptions brought about by america ’s short-termism fail to present a longstanding systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole .
studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that it might allow for a sharp reduction in the cost of greenhouse gases ( or its equivalent ) . they also emphasize the knock-on benefits that adopting quick action on climate change could have , including reduced local pollution , greater energy and food security , and faster innovation . to hasten the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; involve a common and consistent system for monitoring , reporting , and verifying ; and providing powerful economic incentives on a global scale . in our system , a country exceeding the global per capita emissions average would pay a specified amount on each ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold . our price-and-rebate mechanism is being inspired by the “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars tax , or issued bonuses , depending on a vehicle ’s co2 emissions .
by purchasing government bonds for monetary bonds , the central bank can satisfy demand and push down the price of cash . thus , expansionary monetary policy through the central bank ’s standard open-market operations is the first item on the checklist of what to do during a financial crisis . three months ago , i argued that all but the unsound and politicized fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant during a downturn , and rightly so . i was also correct to say that all but a nonexistent fringe of economists approve of the central-bank guarantees for a system of stability in order to prevent the risk of a collapse of the payments system from becoming a postorder consideration that could boost money demand to unnatural levels . by purchasing government bonds for monetary bonds , the central bank can satisfy demand and push down monetary prices .
the eastward enlargement of nato and the european union , they contend , represented an unnecessary provocation . for starters , it is based on the claim , in the period of the berlin wall street ’s collapse and the soviet union ’s disintegration , that the west promised to see no nato expansion . in fact , none of these other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato ’s enlargement to the 1990s on precisely those grounds . there are obvious limits to this theory , indeed , to be drawn in the first place . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the demise of the ussr , accused the west of not holding back the promises it made in 1989 , instead taking the advantage of russia ’s weakening ” in the 1990 ’s to assert “ monopoly leadership and domination of the world , ” ” including through nato enlargement .
the international monetary fund , too , has gotten in the act . while its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , undoubtedly conscious of the panglossian view it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is vulnerable to an abrupt tightening of financial conditions ” , and that “ equity valuations seem stretched across some markets . ” in this respect , “ “ “ some ” is the imf ” code for the united states . the american market ’s share of global equity valuations is the highest it has ever – an astounding statistic , given america ’s declining share of global economic activity . to be sure , the international monetary fund has had a lot in acting .
i have also developed what i have called the adjusted sachs , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate of the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america and the eurozone . given that the us dollar carry trade at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on this day , this suggests that the us dollar is effectively around 6 % weaker than it should be . accordingly , the adjusted scarce-fed for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as of june 7 , stood at € 1 : $ 1,0590 . i have also developed what i have called the adjusted scarce-fed , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america ’s and the rest of the eurozone . now , of course , 6 % is not a particularly important difference , and that finding may not imply anything at all .
the party returned to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharply sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated their loan repayments – hoping to get their money back . kazakh governments scrambling to support its over-tended to be encouraged by private banks with capital injections and nationalizations gave up , deciding to pull the plug . the banks tightly defaulted on their loans , and the creditors took massive “ haircuts ” ( reducing principal values ) . but – and here ’s the point – with its debts written off , the banking system is now recapitalized , and in order to support economic growth . despite a messy default , this fresh start generated a remarkable turnaround .
in the drc , for example , even after all of this age , we reach just 8 % of the world ’s 760,000 children . that year must be education ’s moment – a window of opportunity opened by a new un consensus that education is critical to achieving united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , including by lowering maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our minds to the issues of gender equality . yet , most important , this is education on the moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holds out her own book up to an insurgent ’s gun in pakistan , when teenage mothers exiled in south sudan in neighboring uganda are making the education for their children their top priority , and when the lights being seen from space might include putting child huddled by a candlelight getting to read and study , we know that the education moment has arrived . just $ 230 per year per person is available for basic needs like water , food and shelter , and less than $ 10 per child goes toward education .
over the past two decades , the world has become accustomed to us-led international coalitions for war against the islamic state . president jimmy carter used it to set the stage for the signing of the 1978 camp david accords , set diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . and secretary of state james baker used it to cross the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the madrid peace conference in 1991 . unless america can provide that today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict-resolution . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , change north korea ’s behavior , or halt the syrian civil war in its own ways .
if not , the un , nato , and the european union all discredit themselves , as does the humanitarian values that they use to justify their “ humanitarian '' interventions . by appeasing terror campaigns in this manner , the world ’s most powerful states are giving green light to terrorists not just in the balkans but all over the world . if the world fails to eradicate terrorists from polio in kosovo , what hope does it have for defeating terrorism elsewhere ? in reality , kosovo is a territory far smaller than it has in the past . so far , before an antiterror campaign seeks other terrorist bases to destroy it , it should eradicate terror within the area under which the un itself rules .
the view that an individual gene might account for a full biological trait is as old as genetics itself . early on , a few early-geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ‘ shiftlessness , ’ and ‘ criminality ’ could all account for the taking praises of individual genes simultaneously . ” if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behaviors had become so complicated , can it really be any less so with humans ? soon , some early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made odious assertion that , “ licentiousness , ‘ shiftlessness ’ and “ criminality ” and “ criminality ” could all attribute to individual genes equally . as time passed , and the scholarly insight accumulated -- much from the fruit fly -- the true complexity of the relationship between genes and characteristics became obvious .
the problem is that no matter how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs have been formulated , they remain bogus . among other things , capitalism has been a struggle among individual people over control of scarce resources . like boxing and poker , it is soft , restrained , private form of warfare . military strategists have known for centuries that exists and can be , no definitive science of warfare . and , after all , one can have a finite , utopian society , without having a definitive , scientific theory of human behavior , alongside some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over a piece of things .
paris – earlier this week , following days of strained discussions , italy ’s new government in athens reached an agreement with its euroskeptic creditors – comprising an immediate reform package and a four-month extension of its financing program . in any negotiations , a key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the result , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each of them . to be sure , the issue stems from the costs of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media throughout the recent negotiations – with considerable speculation about the various players ’ stance , particularly the greek and german governments . but , despite a collective global sigh of relief for relief , the compromise does not eliminate the need for future negotiations on the new financial-assistance program , which is supposed to introduce in late june . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is very little support within the country .
consider kazakhstan , where a whopping five million people cast their ballots in lhasa for the lower house of parliament . western media judged the election a default . but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture , either . in fact , cnn reported it “ neither equitable nor free . ” elections in like-minded countries to democracy are never quite pretty , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as any election in iraq is likely . instead , western media judged the election a rigged failing .
it is largely a matter of providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , together with access to education and basic health care . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already possesses a very strong , well-educated entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a number of world-class corporations that can be enlisted in an effort to provide these public goods . satisfying the demand for such goods on their own is , by itself , an engine of growth . as india did away from the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments has understood the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) has challenged the 2004 election on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in its pre-slogan , “ shining ” india . but , too , a reliable road creates tremendous extra activity , as trade increases among interconnected regions , with myriad businesses , restaurants , and hotels spring along the route .
with an unassailable parliamentary majority , italy could have enacted coherent supply-side reforms even at the risk of some incipient unpopularity . its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure was unfit to support new challenges , owing both to solid size and their specialization in traditional industries , as well as to low levels of education and early september & d. & d. d. was a few of these reforms belatedly enacted : timid intervention on pensions and a further increase in labor-market flexibility . yet berlusconi ’s government did next to nothing in dealing with these weaknesses , despite being italy ’s first governed state in italy ’s history , in order to survive a full five-year electoral term . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give the right incentives for restructuring sufficiently , while privatization did so halting .
notwithstanding civil wars , malnutrition , and anguish in the aids epidemic , something remarkable is occurring in blackafrica : a stealthy rise of a high-technology sector . there have some 1,500 africans process american health-insurance claims – working around the clock , in three shifts . if not quite representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of high-tech industries can and must be designed if africa is to thrive . consider what is now happening on several floors of singapore ’s one high-elevation office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . africans are talking english , type at least 50 words a minute to a computer ; take data-makers out claims forms supplied by american health insurers through satellite tv , have introduced it into new digital forms ; ships are being dropped into the american system .
the westphalian system was replaced by the cold war bipolar order , wherein its sovereignty rested with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . the goal of such an effort was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and its hegemonic head bullying . yet the westphalian system was demolished with the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both of which constituted european wars of attrition . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans – even victorious european allies – effectively lost their sovereignty . the eu was conceived as an attempt to recover european sovereignty peacefully by pooling the national interests of european nations .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its banking stress tests . in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its banking stress tests . if it is grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . if it is more forthright about the risks , there is a real possibility that some periphery countries might have difficulty plugging the loopholes and would require assistance from the north . because many banks are holding a big volume of the eurozone ’s sovereign debt , the results will very much depend on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk .
at the same time , researchers should take advantage of fully representative test groups , while taking care to adhere to stringent privacy and accountability protocols . venture capitalists now spend $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development . they should expand the scope of their investment to include ai-enabled technology-based technologies for mental-health-care delivery . at the same time , they might fund contests among socially conscious tech entrepreneurs in order to spur further innovations in this field . to be sure , such initiatives cost money – and need to be pursued in the first place .
consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth laboratory , which i founded in 2006 , after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , the us has been working on more than three dozen other countries and regions . in some respects , a lab looks a bit like a teaching and research hospital . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” ” ” ” or on governments in our case . yet the teaching-hospital model might be effective in promoting public policy , too .
the fledgling england ’s fledgling textile mills were desperate for technology , and they have their best to steal british designs and multicks in skilled british artisan charter . and the us had as much in common with the british industrialists ’ trade secrets like that of china today for american intellectual-property rights . any sensible international trading regime must begin from the recognition that it is neither workable nor desirable to constrain policy space countries to design their own economic and social models . after all , america possessed patent laws , but protected only some us citizens . as one historian of the us enterprise put it , americans “ got pirates , too . ”
the other great change – ie , the end of global ideological divisions – also raises difficult and , perhaps , more complex questions . yes , one may debate a third-way history or a half way or a half way or a few three and a half way forward , but these are basically marginal debates . but if the world shifts in that direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political-global power resources will begin to take shape , starting with the very beginning of the end of the new international system . there exists today a fundamental one , even on an occasion for a hitherto ritualistic , consensus about the notion that liberal democracy and human rights are the points of departure for a political organization with some form of free markets with varying degrees of social responsibility , based on private entrepreneurship , as the basis of economic activity . making all of these changes will be difficult to achieve .
developing bhe would require a new private-sector investment platform , structured to give bespoke returns to its diverse actors . finally , the regulated nature of cash flow would allow for a better predefined return structures than traditional private or public equity can offer . risk would be further complicated through the involvement of large , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps the international financial institutions . developing bhe would require a new private-sector investment platform , structured to give bespoke returns for its diverse actors . it would offer returns close to those yielded by equity investment , but with some risk offset by its long-run nature .
of course , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even held small quantities of their currencies in reserve portfolios . but such actions may look less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward world dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . capital inflows – which will undoubtedly rise over the coming years – are driven largely by investors ’ appetite for diversified and high bond yields , rather than by the country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , particularly given china ’s relatively under-developed and beset major risks . depending on how soon china opens its capital account and resolves its financial markets , the renminbi could become an important reserve currency in the near future . and countries ’ appetite for maintaining good relationships with china , owing to its rising economic might , do not seem discounted .
and an american drug enforcement administration will not look kindly to any backtracking from earlier mexican presidents ’ commitments to pursue waging a costly , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico . of course , there are other items on the us-mexican agenda ranging from intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba . but trump cares more about us security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua on nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here might be avoided . the peasants in guerrero cultivate amapola for cartels , rather than a livelihood . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while retreating to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-interventionist attitude toward regional diplomacy .
in may 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . the au should show leadership on this front , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy on par with its agenda 2063 . the same year , similar protests have erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the enactment of a law that would enable president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure . the au should show leadership in this field , pursue interventions that buttress constitutional democracy in line with its agenda 2063 . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must stand against “ constitutional coups ” conducted by its presidents , because it sets itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
higher fertility rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect the very large number of immigrant families in each country . the fertility rate among immigrants is typically higher in france than in native europe , or in north american households . but a rising number of immigrant workers will not necessarily raise birth rates . an aging population is contributing to europe ’s poor economic performance . germany , for example , has a large working-age population , but very few settle there with its families ; most leave their children in their own homeland .
impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes go un-noted . the news hardly made a ripple effect of the american media in the us . the few who are noticed typically finished off a slap on christ , with the company – meaning its shareholders – picking up a modest fine . the real culprits at the summit among these firms rarely had to be worried . of course , there were no consequences whatsoever for cheney .
for much of our evolutionary history , human beings imminently – and our primate forebears – lived in small groups , in which violence could be inflicted only in the realm of up-front and personal , by thumbing , strangling , or by applying a stick or stone as a club . greene found that , asking people to make moral judgments about “ personal ” violations , like pushing the stranger out of their footbridge , showed increased activity in brain areas associated with emotion . this was n’t the case with people asked to make judgments about relatively impersonal ” abuses , like throwing a switch . moreover , the minority of subjects carrying out that it would be right to pressure an outsider off a footbridge took longer to reach that judgment than those who said that doing so would be wrong . moreover , the minority of subjects deemed to be the right to pressure an outsider off a footbridge took longer to reach that judgment only with those who said that doing so would be wrong .
then , back in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , followed by other partners . in 1949 , britain found itself on the same footing , with a trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling again devalued out , since it left for the first time , by more than 30 % . investors , for their part , have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude . political uncertainty is fairly high , and there is little prospect that a us general election to resolve it anytime soon .
once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and the conduct . in fact , relations with israel improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than at any time before – a move orchestrated by miller , but accepted by refah . power , indeed , led refah toward compromise , not to the extremes . it remained a vital member of nato , at that time . turkey continued to authorize u.s.-led “ operation provides comfort ” against iraq in order to use turkish bases .
new york – back in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women for suffrage and equality , wrote ms. warren ’s occupation of occupation , a play whose title is the proprietor of a few brothels . the play is not salacious and contains no coarse language , but it has , nonetheless , eight years before it can be staged . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a tiny theater “ club ” ostensibly confined to members . its performance in new york , in 1905 , was raided by the police . the play justifies her lucrative exploitation of feminist prostitution .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the verge of an unemployment crisis portends profound economic , political , and social ramifications . while the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to generate 25 million new jobs within a decade , through its youth jobs in the african initiative ( echank ) , it is not immediately clear where those opportunities will come from . indeed , the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s colleges and universities are failing to produce enough high-tech skills to succeed tomorrow ’s workplace . each year , some 13 million young people look for work in africa ; but only around three million find jobs . yet a crisis can be averted , and one solution may be just as simple as turning on the lights .
in refusing to mention a two-state solution , trump ’s team ’s statements go down in another direction , more in line with israel ’s official position : a single state and two systems . nor did they calculate that the palestinian people have dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , would insist on having to be treated accordingly . now plans are afoot to “ promote a future of middle east peace and security through the us-polish conference in warsaw under the palestinians ’ general assembly in warsaw , whereby the palestinians are not about to participate . yet , no palestinian , arab , or accountable international leaders would ever accept that design , as was made clear in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let us be clear : a two-state solution does not imply accommodating the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it means ending that colonial enterprise .
in any case , neither is as if avoiding even talking about israel is a departure for sanders . despite having commented on the matter where he must , he has usually not been outspoken on issues concerning the country . he has certainly never embraced israel as a political cause , as have so many other american jewish politicians . nor does israel appear to figure a great deal in its own jewish identity that is more entangled with holocaust memory than anything else . in this respect , sanders is no different than many other american jews .
king salman has embraced trump ’s war against terror and anti-iran rhetoric , and has expressed support for an israeli-palestinian peace . instead , trump has completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced armaments to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy . the deal seems to have become the foundation of a wonderful new friendships , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . nothing has been said of human rights , much less of a women ’s right , and the word “ democracy ” has never passed trump ’s lips . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the american people ’s chief business is business .
since gold was $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold has done nothing to counteract falling back to the value of the us dollar . a japanese investor holding dollar equities or real estate might , instead , have intended to offset the exchange rate ’s loss by buying yen futures . the same is true of a euro-based investor that would not have gained by holding gold but could have compensated the dollar ’s decline by buying euro futures . tips , or their likes from other governments , provides secure inflationary hedges and explicit currency futures could compensate for exchange-rate risk . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflation and exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china has pegged its undervalued currency to the renminbi , the renminbi , to the us dollar , each weakening of the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis , has also meant the weakening of the renminbi against other world currencies . now , the united states seems to be making drastic moves against china and is creating provisions for a trade war . south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many others are now buying dollars to protect their own currencies against revaluation , and hence to defending their exports . but is china really intended to blame for the eruption of a global currency war ? europe has also become nervous after the euro ’s appreciating exchange rate rose to above $ 1.40 , far beyond us dollar purchasing power parity ( ppp ) exchange rates of $ 1.17 .
but while such sources can provide valuable insights , they are not complying with the standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which an informed public conversation should be based . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for monitoring incomes and fortunes . government statistical agencies should publish income and wealth levels of the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the effective taxes that such groups pay . for these reasons , researchers , media , and civil-society organizations need to become more involved . to that end , a particularly important milestone will come with scrutiny , owing over the next three years to the united nations system of national accounts .
health-care reform , as hillary clinton was able to tell them , is fearsomely complicated . eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the us government just a little over $ 100 billion per year , roughly 3 % of federal spending . it is becoming increasingly evident that the name will change ( “ trumpist care , ” ” ” anyone ? ) , and that could be expected to cover the republican plan with fewer people ; but much of that substance remains the same . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . but there are a large majority of their individual dedicated tax subsidies .
during cardoso 's tenure , he privatized telecoms , a national mining company , and a portion of the electric sector . while inflation was declining , but unemployment and public debt and urban violence all increased sharply . social inequalities heightened , and over the past year brazil has suffered civil strife and electricity rationing . from early campaign onward , lula displayed strength , especially after an favored candidate , roseana sarney , was gunned down and burning when the federal police and the judiciary discovered a load of cash in her husband ’s home office . mr. and ms. sarney finally absolved of all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy .
( for all of these interventions , figures are likely to be slightly smaller , because a charity impact calculator is not intended for such large sums , and so ignores that costs will rise once the needs of those who are the simplest they could be met . ) when a person chooses to purchase the salvator mundi ” rather than to restore sight to nine million people , what does this tell me about their values ? give directly ’s cash transfers an increase in recipients ’ food security , for mental health , and human assets . give outright ’s cash transfers increase recipients ’ food security , mental health , and land assets . for $ 450 million , you could also have bought an estimated 180 million bed nets , enough to save 271 million people from malaria .
mail managers also handle incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests as specified by the recipient and collect credit card information from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts , or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . dozens of glitches are beginning to occur , beginning with people whom you know whom multiple email addresses , old friends not on your current white house lists , and so on . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as fewer maine gets sent , a higher share of it will be desired and responded . to start , you can simply set your price at , say , $ 1 , together with a list of people who can reach you for a free . the recipient is not likely to see complexities ; much of this will be handled in the background .
on trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy , aligned with trump ’s own brand of political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self , is yet another narrative ) . it was a mistake to see bannon as pygmalion to trump galatea , or , as some have done , like trump ’s white house chief rasputin . and bannon has intruded on us foreign policy by bullying himself into the us national security council , pending two of trump ’s cabinet generals – national security adviser , h. r. mcmaster , and john kelly ( now chief of staff ) – have got him removed . bannon has reinforced the nationalist inclination that has led trump to overrule his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . ( bannon was believed to be behind trump ’s recent pushback to bully him from mcdonald ’s , principally by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ”
thus , creditor countries , led by germany , struggled to do the minimum needed to keep europeans alive , while debtors have grumbled depotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . parochial suspicion was the main impediment to grand solutions . no country ’s taxpayers were willing to feel that they were repaying the eurozone ’s excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . meanwhile , demand in much of europe is weak , ruling out the economic growth needed to service its debts , and offer hope to the country ’s 25 million unemployed . under pressure from both sides , they are degenerating each other too hard to cooperate .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average , and by about 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore external-debt sustainability . the cheap credit ushered in by the reserve bank of southern european countries that burst when the crisis hit . credit terms deteriorated abruptly , and what was left was a thoroughly overpriced rump of economies that became excessively reliant on foreign financing . the french economy , in turn , is suffering because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . the ecb and the international community , in particular , have been struggling to cope with the crisis by substituting a dearth of private capital with public borrowing .
encyclopedias is , of course , never intended to be read cover for cover . the author is open at gunpoint , and follows a set of questions for one to see how it will arrive at its conclusions . the same happens , even if one reads the philosophy of , say , husserl . the same happens , although you read philosophy through , say , husserl . if i wanted to tell whether it was possible that napoleon i met kant , i pick up high numbers and n , and discovers that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 and died in 1804 .
from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating economic logic . but our emotions are algorithms , bequeathed by evolution , by which we make most decisions , including those of politics ; economic cost-benefit analysis that is out of touch with our emotional compass does not move the needle . at the heart of the issue is the sense of us without ” ” ” . what does it mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iraq , turkey , switzerland , or any other political entity ? letting them in might produce a better team , but it might no longer be our team .
a careful study of the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states shows , yet again , that islam and democracy can and should coexist . this conclusion comes from comparing muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam , which seems at loggerheads with democracy . islam and democracy are , to be sure , frequently presumed to be bitter antagonists . if a government sprang out of reasonably fair elections and an elected government manages to fill some of its most important political offices , the country views “ electorally competitive . ”
thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse coaching of research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering , ” ” techniques . on the other hand , the swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger correctly remarked that venter ’s achievement was a technical advance , not a conceptual one . ( if anything , those standards are excessively burdensome . ) other scientists have noted that an organism really is only “ semi-synthetic , ” ” ” because the “ synthetic dna ( which comprises only around 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) was introduced in ordinary or non-synthetic , bacterium . understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , for recognizing the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which , in turn , affects the technology ’s potential application and diffusion .
paris – with weak demand in advanced countries now choking off growth in emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of growth-generating income convergence had come to an end . that process began in earnest in the late 1980 ’s and continues unabated , with the exception of the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . as i argued previously at the time , a convergence of emerging countries ’ real average incomes , at the aggregate level , with advanced countries ’ incomes likely to continue by the end of 2020 . nothing could be further from the truth ; indeed , it is entirely possible to start now . the rate of convergence accelerated further during the period and just after the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : the aggregate differential in per capita income growth widened to just over four percentage points between 2008 and 2012 , from just slightly more than two percentage points in the preceding two decades .
labour has struggled to avoid a constitutional debate , because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . as for conservatives , mps have allowed its conviction in the union/constituent parts union to foreclose any discussion about how this could be modernized . this belief has fitting the leaders of both major political parties . labour has sought to preempt a constitutional debate on the grounds that any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . if we are to avoid being rattling toward separation , we must change the way we govern ourselves .
at the same time , fact-checkers should not simply focus on tackling fake information , but also on identifying the sources of trustworthy information , pointing their readers and followers to them . that means reaching out to public figures to request online ads , posting complaints with standard-body bodies , and making training to media organizations . it also means working with tech companies to identify ways to prevent the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international boundaries . this is the approach taken by our organizations ; and , as small and under-resourced financial institutions are , the impact is already becoming apparent . and we should work with schools and other educational platforms to help teach people to identify fake or misleading acclaim .
london – one of today ’s most dispassionate features of international debates is that the threat to mankind posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons – and by those who will build more – has been consigned to the margin of politics . us president barack obama captured worldwide attention with his 2009 prague speech , making this a compelling case for a nuclear-armed , weapon-free world . us president barack obama captured global attention by his 2009 prague spring , making this a compelling case for a nuclear-armed , free world . and he delivered on a high-profile new arms-reduction treaty with russia and hosted a summit focused on his goal of reducing america ’s vulnerability to nuclear weapons and materials for theft or diversion . it would take a courageous gambler to bet on ratifying the american senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty any time soon . but , for now , nuclear issues continue to struggle for public resonance and political traction .
the report concludes that an additional $ 3.6 trillion in investment – roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) by 2020 – would be required to boost america ’s infrastructure quality by tackling a “ major backlog of overdue maintenance [ and a ] pressing need for modernization . ” the report concludes that an additional $ 3.6 trillion investment – roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) by 2020 – would be needed to spur the quality of america ’s infrastructure by tackling a “ greatly backlog of over-maintenance [ and the ] pressing need for modernization . ” it seems self-evident that an underdeveloped economy calls for adequate , sustained investment in us public goods . yet the us state of infrastructure suggests that many decision-makers do not share this view . the report cited numerous state-specific weaknesses , including michigan ’s own “ 88 high-hazard dams ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the “ 44.5 billion ” needed to upgrade the drinking-water system ” in california .
global cannabis markets , opium , and coca products are essentially analogous to other global commodity markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the premise that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . prohibition in fact represent a abdication of regulation . true , governments may act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to view prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . a second myth presumes that prohibition impair the harm associated with drugs . whatever is not suppressed is effectively unregulated in the world , with the exception of criminal organizations .
to see this , consider northern sea cod . as it stands , we have “ fished down ” our stockpiles , until few large , old individuals remain . in addition , there will be no chance for fish to reproduce , undermining fish stocks completely . for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken from the sea , by allowing some young fish to reproduce and by ensuring that actions are adhered to . ” this is for the best of the reasons – fish that get caught up when there is too little will produce a little yield .
with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . but putin ’s ambitions as a “ post-modern autocrat may be his achilles heel . ” the truth about what people genuinely feel remains an impossible dream . official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and normally 86 % – support it on everything from iran ’s annexation of crimea to its latest term as president .
yet this vulnerability was largely created , or at least accommodated , by western banks . funding from parent banks that in the earlier phase of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to eastern european banking systems now seems more like a liability and potential source of contagion . so was western european financial regulators and supervisors , who , under “ home rule , ” had to discourage such excesses . likewise , extending foreign banks ’ infiltration has effectively deprived countries in central and eastern europe of monetary-policy instruments , leaving them with little control over extraordinarily rapid credit growth . but it was probably in hungary , the first country to pursue an imf package , that such practices were most widespread .
what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments responded to violent extremism primarily by deploying “ hardline ” ( “ national ” ) “ safety first . ” but this strategy has neither reduced extremist groups ’ potency , or limited their reach . what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . in fact , there is mounting evidence that an exclusively military response can be a waste of resources or even do more harm than good .
moreover , wherever health-care costs go to everyone , including america ’s , with its public-health programs for the poor and the elderly , everybody pays the cost of trying to treat cigarette diseases . at the moment , the tobacco industry will take its fight against australia , under dodd-frank legislation to the world trade organization . the industry fears that the law could be copied in much larger us markets , like india and china , as well . it seems odd , however , to hold that state may in principle prohibit selling , but it may not permit sales of packs only in packs that carry graphic images of harm that cause human health . whether to prohibit cigarettes utterly is another matter , because doing so would undoubtedly create a new source of revenue for organized crime .
during the hurricane season of 2004 , the dominican republic , investing in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks , had suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which was unready , it lost 2,000 lives . the united nations framework convention on disaster preparedness efforts has refused unless states prove precisely how disaster they feared were linked to climate change . according to a recent rand study , in 2003 , united nations funding for disaster loss-reduction research amounted to roughly $ 127 million – just 7 % of the amount invested in this year ’s climate-change research . climate-change policies are not the best way to reduce heat-related effects .
in particular , leaders focused on investment , business , competition , and efforts to enroll more women in the labor force ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to target corruption . the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the official us-china emission target to formal g-20 support for “ vigorous ” and effective action to deal with climate change . ( all of this has scorned australia , ’s conservative host government , struggling to block the issue even before it was raising ; the australian public , however , was delighted , and promptly thrown down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for that and other embarrassments . ) other formal outcomes at the g-20 meeting were agreements – backed by more policy detail than most commentators had anticipated – to stimulate global growth . the g-20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge to the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 .
if one is looking to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such a magisterial setting as versailles is sure to prove effective . many of those who voted for macron may have been hoping for a total of twenty-first-century bonaparte . but now they may be thinking even more of louis xvi , a king who had paid himself with his life for the faults of his predecessors . but reveling in the country ’s monarchical history may be dangerous . can macron learn from his errors and regain confidence among french voters , who feel humiliated by him ?
and that is exactly what the us economy has been through an unprecedented fiscal stimulus and the unthinkable policy activism on the part of the american federal reserve . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their us counterparts around the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and they did , culminating in one of history ’s most successful periods of global policy coordination , involving both advanced and emerging economies . for many , the world economic summit held in london in april 2009 marks the point when an american economy was turning a corner . the change was so notable as a result that many us policymakers fell into the trap of projecting a rapid rebound , especially in view of america ’s previous history of economic dynamism and resilience , only to be humbled by what has proven to be a protracted and complex recovery process .
the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of the us real-estate bubble . the stock market had fallen nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak and remains down by nearly a third . that enormous loss of wealth created a large and persistent drop in consumption demand , which in turn has led to an increase in unemployment . fear feeds on itself , and the prediction that stocks may lose value becomes self-fulfilling . housing wealth in the us has declined at a rate of just 34 % since its peak in 2006 and remains declining .
a free , healthy news media are vital for a well-functioning democracy ; they are essential to a well-functioning democracy . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report , flailing a spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling for solutions . if we are to protect the latter , we must defend the old at all costs . as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . for example , the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , was neither buying the las vegas review-journal in 2015 , or captured israeli media for funds .
the political camps of old – left and right – are back for now . so far , merkel has been forced to come to terms with a weak or non-existent opposition . this will change very quickly , particularly given the possibility of nato ’s troop increases in afghanistan . from now on , it will require a trait that she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making capabilities . in addition , the triumph of a black and yellow-hue has defined an alternative : red-hot red and dark red versus green .
the fourth challenge is changing how we produce , transport , and oils consume energy . instead , we need the integration of transportation , housing , and land use , encouraging dependence on public transport , and making our streets enjoyable and keeping walking ( particularly for women and the disabled ) secure . this includes the creation of more efficient energy systems , and increasing our investment in renewables ( which will , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . fifth , we need to reform how we manage our water resources and water infrastructure to ensure that this precious resource can be reused repeatedly , and on a city-wide scale . at the same time , we can encourage households to consume less energy less , with companies reducing the amount of energy that they eat .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel was all but impossible . surprise almost all by securing a decisive electoral victory , he won a third consecutive term in office after his right-wing likud party captured a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . yet the celebration is likely to be cut short . how netanyahu finagled that outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and conceding to resume construction settlements on occupied land – will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel .
an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement ought to be whether it frees ali savchenko , ukraine ’s first woman fighter pilot . of course , i hope that the new start treaty will last , at long last , bring a peaceful transition to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as automatic eviction of russia from a swift financial transfer system , should it renege on any aspect of the deal . simply put , trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . the savchenko had been on a hunger strike in russia for more than two months in order to protest her patently illegal trappings on charges even more ludicrous than may have been detained .
more populous countries have more business travel in both directions , but the volume is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more of the world ’s population than another has only around 70 % more business travel . before anyone starts slashing its travel budgets , let ’s try to see why we need to move people away from information altogether . more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel in either direction , but the volume is less than proportionally with their populations : a country with 100 % more of a population than at any time , only about 70 % more business travel . moreover , in ongoing work with dany bahar , michele coscia , as well as frank neffke , we have managed to establish some intriguing , fact-based facts . why waste precious work time in the air , in safety checks , and await our baggage ?
too many italians have shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi 's falsehoods and shortcomings , figuring out that he would sooner go astray , has done little harm . in the cost of liberty , americans fond of saying is eternal vigilance . yet it has not gone away , and it has made ample harm . america can not afford to make the same mistake again . in confronting trump , there can be no discount as well .
beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” – an image that some cabinet members have sought to cultivate – the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . a peruvian government now has a serious problem . specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval of a collection of “ realistic ” procedures intended to reduce red tape perceived to be hampering investment in extractive industries – the very industries upon which an economy needs to become less reliant . and , while the government recognizes the need for secession reform , its approach is all wrong . the new law has gravely weakened peru ’s capacity to regulate land use , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental impact assessments .
the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s governments , who were quite imprisoned and tortured beneath the military regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake . when pundits weigh down emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle-class and booms in educational and connectivity . but they have seldom appreciated the texture of their democracy and civil society – the relative newness of hard-won freedoms and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or a colonial administration , means to individual liberty . ( still less do they have noticed the role that female empowerment and feminism played in development . ) fifa and the ruling government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests put the risk of what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of liberty and democracy .
in fact , nato is no longer just a military alliance ; it is still a nuclear one . instead , it is now a military-political alliance that sets the democratic standard for new members and aspirants . no romanian government can neglect such standards , either . how , then , can nato help ? directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do so .
in terms of the number of political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined the ranks of countries like chile , cuba , ecuador , and turkey . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s already repressive practices . but trump also acted quickly to recognize the opposition leader , juan guaidó , as an interim leader of state after guaidó , with widespread backing among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision designed to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mob statement that has purchased military loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . the “ mob opponents ” are repelled , often brutally .
the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , cutting banks ’ excess-requirement ratio – the restructuring momentum could fade ; and there is no guarantee that extra liquidity will flow toward the real sector . but , so far , efforts to lower funding costs have had limited impact . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial enterprises remains near 7 % , while economic growth has edged down from a 7.4 % year on year in the final three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the situation may not be dire , but it is far from ideal , especially at a time when china ’s authorities are pursuing structural reform .
while such an approach would almost certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . drafted with reference to un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people , based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustment and security arrangements . such a vote would also deal , indirectly , with the israeli government demanding that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ” drafted with reference to un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people based on the 1967 borders with mutually agreed borders and security arrangements . such a vote would also deal directly with international calls by international calls for bilateral diplomacy .
robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , in particular , to respect privacy and safety . given that ongoing changes in means of production have already kick-started this trend , gates , and some in the european parliament have proposed that robots be taxed to pay for human services . whether this will be the best solution right now is the topic of much debate ; but , clearly , some kinds of compromise will be needed . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this question than taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working at robotization .
new york – “ everything . ” so goes the refrain in a now-famous argentine song . but , in fact , in argentina all of this remains the same , or will to becomes worse . heraclitus ’s warning against miuthing in the same sea is twice lost on us economic ministers , insisting on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . whenever they venture bathing , they followed the same path , first raising concerns over what happens if argentina pays back its external debt , and then inevitably pays off its debt under intense pressure from the international monetary fund and america .
shanghai – as the current international order becomes more fragmented , powerful global-governance institutions have been critical for tackling a world of strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely have our current institutions – including , most important , the united nations – been frailer . the un is not broke , but it is in trouble , especially as more countries treat it as polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere . we ’ve ’ve seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the looming crisis in humanitarian-aid funding . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses .
the decision to launch february 15 as a day of mass protest was seemingly staged at the european social forum meeting in florence in july last july . in ninety days , these organizers swung out of more than five million protestors worldwide . in fact , the internet has been allowed for a rapid , widespread dissemination of organizational plans at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . mass action has depended on local organizations that were seizing the initiative , based on a loose global plan . coming together , there are three keys to this phenomenon :
how better to memorialize this decision than to build a prison boom ? indeed , they are being cleansed to leave , and there is only obama ’s failure to hold onto his promise – and america ’s congress party ’s inability to legislate his transfer – that keeps them there . according to america ’s southern national command spokesman , which oversees grain-mo , hunger strikers is disillusioned , simply because they have interpreted obama ’s pledge to close gitmo . eight inmates now enter the second month of a hunger strike . the new us facility , which enforces funds to be dedicated , will house 106 prisoners ( the precise number is uncertain ) who have been neither tried nor charged .
flows of technology and innovation : expanded technology ( and learning ) flows between china and the rest of the world would promote the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; declining flows would undermine global productivity . it is important to note that these choices are not only china ’s ; the world also has the decisions to make . according to our simulator , $ 8-12 trillion could be at risk , depending on where technology is unleashing innovation and declining productivity growth . at the same time , the world may have to decide how to catalyze more or less move technologies that increasingly receive security reviews . for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that reinforce dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits of increased chinese ( and other ) trade are shared broadly .
it is hard for me to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even a quarter of that . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen has argued in a 2007 report , technical indicators are making exiting the eurozone difficult , costly , and perilous . but that is still just one side of the ledger . whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland – which is not under the eurozone – has essentially recovered . using iceland as our measures stick , the costs to greece , not exiting the eurozone , amount to 75 % of one year ’s gdp – and counts .
last march , as rumors circulated that he had been losing the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be under threat if it had lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he lost , he demanded a recount , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as supreme leader . there is only one way to explain the american administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite – in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage from iraqis in his first term . when maliki lost , he demanded a recount , not to form a candidate , but in his capacity as supreme leader . in that , obama follows the example of president george w. bush ’s administration , which let america ’s electoral agenda not be mentioned , rather than the american people , to dictate iraqi policy .
in fact , i am not convinced that osborne himself ever teamed up to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . when one trusts a narrative , one acts in ways that makes one appear true . in his emphasis on signaling significance , economics enters a postmodernist territory . the signal – in this case , the promise of balancing the books – generates reality . people start behaving like although balanced books were , to ignore .
for its part , novartis recently announced a plan to invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains of the disease . this is a challenging moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity . in response to its dwindling donor funding , ghanaian governments have brought sri lanka ’s private-sector leaders together to launch ghana ’s malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent financing gaps , but will eventually help to lead an environmentally sustainable , domestic effort to eliminate malaria from the country . our focus now is on finalizing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . this is clearly a daunting moment in the fight against malaria .
alternatively , factional conflict would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraq identity . there are good reasons for iraq to disavow lebanon ’s example in such respect . if sunnis come to believe that the shi’a and kurds plan to treat them as second-class citizens , they would have little stake in the succeeding maliki ’s government , and might yet again begin to advance their own geopolitical interests on their own , by other means , provoking yet another surge in sectarian violence . even at the top of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army that functions in the shadow of a large , shia-dominated militant organization . lest still , a very different interest group would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity .
that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should be let off the hook for unfair practices . but it does mean that there is limited hope for resolving the country ’s seemingly chronic trade deficits – as well as the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to those imbalances – as long as america has no start to save again . trumponomics appears likely to aggravate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead . the american people had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 – a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be effectively addressed through country-specific remedies . alas , this conspiracy is about to thicken , if not better .
throughout the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 6 is seen as a passing day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th , when israel was defeated by the armies of three arab countries , conquests at the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just a mere six day . arab intellectuals , and indeed the wider arab public , are now busily working out efforts to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraq earthquake . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now busy defending the same old , totalitarian thinking . for example , fahd al-fanek al-fanek , the former ba’ath party member , now the columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-ra “ i. ” their tactic has been to obstruct a clear revision of the iraqi catastrophe , by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting an american-led occupation of iraq . their tactic has been to obstruct a clear revision of the disaster of the iraq catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting the american-iraqi occupation .
given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies a gross misallocation of resources . but , so far , china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic . indeed , in principle , a country can run current-account deficits or a surplus continuously for decades . meanwhile , a lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) may suffer from its heightened investment-income deficits . and , while the recovery in advanced economies has boosted exports , persistent over-capacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than it did in 2012 , has caused investment growth , albeit still accelerating , to recover to its lowest level in the last 11 years .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainability organization of the global footprint network , mankind will have already exploited earth ’s resource budget for the entire year to come . though mankind ’s rising ecological impact manifests itself in many ways , climate change has broadest and longest-lasting effects . carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . by july 29 , according to the global footprint network , mankind will have used up the earth ’s resource budget for as little as three years . this “ earth overshoot day ” has moved ahead of its astonishing two months in the last 20 years , and in 2019 it will arrive earlier than at any time before . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
communist rule managed to remain in power after tiananmen not simply through brute force . a semblance of political legitimacy , particularly among an educated middle class , was bought with the promise of enhanced riches . few people , even the party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . the economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left by the one-party state . few people , even the party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism .
but , with pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . even in an advanced economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue to do so in emerging countries . the world ’s 20 largest cities , accounting for 75 % of all land , will need an estimated 36 million new residential units each year by 2025 . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing , or have struggled financially because of their cost of housing ; that number is projected to grow to 440 million by 2025 .
all of this scare mongering is scarier than conventional election-year fare . berkeley – one need not hold a particularly good one to hear to decipher whistles being applied during this year ’s election campaign in the united states . it is terrifying with people in foreign countries who can conclude only that voters in the world ’s only superpower have become dangerously unbalanced . and it is daunting for the american people , who , until recently , believed – or perhaps even hoping – that they were living in a republic based on the original tradition established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt . revealingly , you can understand that mexicans and the chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that berates george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt .
italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the pension issue nor the question of fiscal reform , demonstrates this completely . but if unions are powerful or seniors in the majority ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are the majorities in all labor unions ) , the exact opposite happens . put in these terms , the problem always becomes solved by giving more to the likes of those who wield the most political power . as a result , when professor nicola historically rossi , an economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in his recent book , he expresses a desire that we give “ less to the fathers and more to the sons . ” here is the grand delusion of italy ’s budget and finance ministry in spain .
oslo – education is a human right , a concept that can not be taken for granted . across the world , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school . and , like other human rights , it can not take for granted . more than 120 million children do not complete primary education , according to the international criminal court ( icc ) . beyond such figures , there are children and youth being denied not just the right but the opportunities : a fair chance to get decent jobs , escape poverty , support their families , and develop their communities .
smallholder farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . moreover , less than 5 % of agricultural land is irrigated , and improved crop varieties rarely apply . moreover , less than 5 % of agricultural land is irrigated , and improved crop varieties rarely apply . on average , they apply less than 10 kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to 140 kilograms in india . but african farmers have encounter major barriers to achieving their potential in the world .
clearly , most eu governments are not . the question is whether they are prepared to take advantage of them . are the risks so high as to justify suffering that might have been avoided ? but why are the developing-country governments truly dragging their feet ? gm foods has now gone to the us market for more than 12 years .
of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , nearly three-quarters is held by some type of debt intended , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and us government securities . certainly , there are some good economic reasons why us lenders have such insatiable appetite for debt . clearly , the derivatives market is helping spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the underlying point stands . imperfect information and the difficulty of tracking firms ’ monitoring risk create significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . but policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role .
moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy ’s sorely needs , given the constrained lending of its banks . yet there are several compelling reasons why italy should not be going down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it , as part of the eu ’s 2016 plan to do . for starters , italy ’s current interests may not be aligned with those of china . whereas italy has received some € 14 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have invested € 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and have signed deals for bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . italian exports to china currently totaled roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) per year , while eu imports are approximately € 29 billion .
after years of economic stagnation and even crises , public ’s patience wearing thin . after years of economic stagnation and even crises , public ’s patience wearing thin . to be sure , many latin american leaders have , over the last few decades , risen to power on the promise of tipping the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have reaped some short-term benefits , particularly for the poor . but , too often , such measures were marred by populism , and ultimately did more harm than good .
his eloquent resignations made it clear that he objected not just to syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and opponents ; his willingness to abandon friends , such as the kurds ; and his sore of alliances , such as nato . even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued a statement in massachusetts , that he was “ aggrieved ” by the departure of mattis ( a significant sign , many believe , by mcconnell , had worried about trump ’s private worried about trump ’s change to the republican party . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . members of congress had expressed outright fear of a trump presidency with no guardrails . mattis ’s friends explained in his television conversation that what most troubled a retired four-star marine general and defensive intelligence intellectual was not only able to no longer influence policies , but also that his remaining in the cabinet was taken as an assertion of trump , a position he could no longer carry .
visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effects of harming international business in china . visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effects of harming international business in china . yet , on this front , china ’s priority is not only to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is intended to spur growth while protecting its own monopoly . the regime is set out to show the world that , once a global power , china , once a global power , may stage a dovish exercise in exposing its voice to doing so .
at a time of persistent economic disruption , that will be all the more consequential . if globalization , in its many dimensions , is backed by a popular majority , it will need to be accompanied by modernizing social policies that provide effective aid to those in need . it will need to become an internationalist , left-leaning leader or internationalist , right-leaning one . just one of those seems likely to be an tenable solution . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a robust , internationalist bent .
but there is an alternative that could help to appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue loss from outright prohibition of smoking : electronic cigarettes . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently highlighted , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population had turned to e-cigarettes , ” that would imply a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . but , despite significant progress toward china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , the shenzhen province housed 900 devices manufacturers , up from 200 % in 2012 , and accounted for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . given that e-cigarettes merely heat a nicotine resolution to produce an inhalable vapor , releasing none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoking , rendering them an ideal nicotine-delivery system for smokers seeking – or gop – to reduce or halt their tobacco intake . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , the e-cigarettes are a homegrown product , conceived in china in 2003 .
even when a government tries to uphold its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it might not get the desired outcomes . the reason the un ’s climate conference ’s failure to fail is straightforward : their agendas centered on discretionary decisions , quantitative targets , – – are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to the idea of quantitative , the universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference are easy . but countries automatically regard adherence to these targets as a sacrifice : in efforts to reduce emissions by jim tons , the us would lose y million jobs , and gdp would shrink by $ z billion . because there are no actual sanctions or punishment for non-compliance when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their minds .
today , 80 % of global trade comprises international supply chains . moreover , declining commercial costs have allowed firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with goods that are processed and value added within multiple countries down the value chain . this would give chinese smartphone firms an opportunity to seize market share from the major players . apple can not build an iphone from scratch in the us alone , so it would need to search for alternative suppliers , raising its production costs considerably . while it grants china just 4 % of the value added , it supplies core components to apple at low prices .
third , a superior ceo pay slice is associated with a weaker level of accountability for poor performance . in firms with high ceo pay slice , the probability of ceo turnover following poor performance ( control over a ceo ’s rate ) is lower . third , a superior ceo pay slice is associated with a weaker level of accountability for poor performance . finally , firms with higher-ceo pay slice more likely to provide their ceo with option grants that turns out to be opportunistically timed . the lower sensitivity of turnover to performance reflects a less willingness on a segment of directors to discipline a ceo ’s .
if europe is to become one thing if the european union is to take sides in the new postcommunist democracies -- which are in everyone 's interest -- a number of vital tasks must be subject , in the new democracies , to do as well as in europe and the atlantic . to begin with , europe must foster communities within postcommunist countries by reforming civil society . by contrast , there is only one europe , despite its very diversity . to stop a good-faith occurrence , there is only one europe , despite its depth . any comrarer provokes repercussions across the continent .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement does not lead to peaceful conflict ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will only prolong the conflict . by contrast , when it comes to russia today , appeasement does not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will only prolong the conflict . this approach offers the best chance for bringing an end to the current confrontation , and a compelling russia engaged constructively with the west . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in their policies toward russia . the sooner the west convinces russian leaders not to back down , the sooner the conflict will end .
today , greece ’s european creditors seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some of the crumbs out of the country ’s pensioners . nine times out of ten , nothing really serious will happen – merely a little hardship by individuals or groups . should they press their demands , forced greece into exit , the world would never trust europe again . but the us run risk to the tenth era … . . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo heightened market pressures .
for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or gerontocracy , in which age leads one at the top , or even an aristocracy , in which what counts is its inherited titles and properties . but , on closer inspection , matters are not quite simple , at least not quite simple . for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . most of those in the top are not just acting with civil services and judiciary , but also with politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the glorious grandes écoles .
most societies recognize the moral obligation to help ensure that young people are able to live up to their potential . to be sure , some countries impose a constitutional mandate on the provision of equality for educational opportunity . but , in america , more is spent on education for the wealthy through education for the poor . as a result , the american people are wasting some of their most valuable assets , with some young people – a change of skill bereft – turning toward dysfunctional operations . at america , for example , the majority of elite universities , accounting for only about 9 % of students , whereas 74 % come from the top quarter .
for decades , le pouvoir used oil revenues to purchase his relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but those reserves were concentrated in the south , and thus were lost when south sudan seceded in 2011 . the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with a suspension from the group unless it shifted power to civilian authority . even as sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , political stability is far from guaranteed . and at the moment , political stability is gone , too .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population has been daunting , especially in view of constraints on crucial resources like water and farmland . yet questions about such farms ’ crucial economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and accumulating the global food supply are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . now , there is a third solution emerging : vertical farming operations . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms , scrapping greenhouses that use an artificial light to grow crops , can provide incremental savings , which could then pass along with consumers .
still , we must confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems and our national budgets need to be derived from the `` generational accounting '' that assures people that economic risk is spread systematically across generations . what this means is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to take better account of the changing circumstances confronting different generations , rather than making fixed promises -- which most likely can not be sustained -- of a given payoff in the future . what it does mean is that the problem at hand is political . pensioners are one of the most powerful lobbies of democracy , and politicians are loath to countenance them on so fundamental an issue .
lower funding costs for government debt also seem to be a net gain to society , because the government then saves to service public debt and can keep taxes lower . but what is proposed now will turn lending to investment into an even less attractive sector and increase incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector . this can only worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects . indeed , many steps have been taken in recent years to reinforce domestic regulation of the banking system . but any gains from lower taxes more than offset the losses to the private sector – which , facing higher funding costs , will invest less – in turn lowering economic growth – and thus cutting government revenue .
the plo has succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . when the palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that the u.s. would endorse such a declaration of statehood if the talks failed , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make agreement senseless . the plo has succeeded in obtaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . the only obstacle remaining so far to palestinian leaders is the american people . when the palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that the u.s. would endorse such a declaration of statehood if the talks failed , mitchell has reacted that such a commitment would make it senseless .
the commercial calculus behind this business has sometimes provoked riots until anatomy laws have authorized bodies of executed murderers , as well as criminal dead to be applied , thereby reassuring the middle and upper class individuals that they own their bodies . the most familiar case regarding the body as possession is that of john moore , the patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at the ucla school of medicine in 1976 . but few laws are in place to address the use of cell , tissues , and genes . these old tensions presupposed new dimensions as human tissue 's commercial potential capture of the entrepreneurial imagination . the most familiar case regarding the body as possession is that of john moore , the patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at an ucla school of medicine in 1976 .
in berlin , as in other large german cities , taxi drivers athletic flags from their home countries – from angola to saudi arabia – taxis . in fact , flags from a number of nations go alongside germany . black , red , and gold-german tricolor adorns whole countries just as never before , but almost nowhere have nationalist undertones been underway . yet the germans , undaunted by one great soccer party with its newfound friends from around the world . fans don not only their respective peoples ’ flags , but also fanciful costumes evocative of their home countries ’ colors .
in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in areas of just 100 days . to prevent an ebola outbreak from escalating further , the relevant actors – from health workers to governments – must re-engage with affected communities to win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is entirely possible . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is completely plausible . thisharrowing experience left behind by destroyed assets , failed state , and a traumatized population with little faith in local or international institutions.national fundamental immunization coverage was less than 30 % .
for starters , large-scale corruption cripples development prospects . after all , corruption is decried across cultures and throughout history . it existed as long as government ; but , like other crimes , it has grown ever since , with devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . at the london anti-corruption summit on june 12 , world leaders – together with representatives from business and civil-society groups – will have a critical opportunity to do this recognition . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant or the royalties of natural resources being stolen at resources , or the private sector being monopolized by a narrow network of cronies , populations are unable to realize their potential .
in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled by new grievances . the protests began when the government tried to enact amnesty legislation , which had overturned the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’s conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra – yingluck ’s twin brother and ptp ’s chief founder – of the military in 2006 – on trumped-up corruption charges and abuses of power . but yingluck ’s subsequent back-track attempt at amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . the yingluck government refused even to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill intended to change the senate , from a half-appointed to a full-fledged elected chamber . ( it also would supersede the murder charges brought against the democratic progressive party chief , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . )
eu member states today are more divided than ever , even on the most fundamental issues concerning the european project . new presidents from the european commission , the council of europe , and the european central bank will be appointed , and a new high representative for the union for foreign affairs and security policy is likely to be elected . if nationalist , euroskeptic parties become the european parliament ’s largest group , these appointments could represent an abrupt break from the past . moreover , east are increasingly pittsburgh against the west and in the north . a forged pro-european consensus of the past has since been replaced by resurgent nationalism .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in their national health systems . but , while rushing to construct more clinics and other health-care facilities in even poorer remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to securing universal health coverage , that has proved untrue . the recent ebola outbreak in west africa has highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and resilient health-care systems in the developing world . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a few health facilities that communities could pursue without . but , while rushing to construct more clinicians and other health-care facilities in even poorer remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensure universal health coverage , that has proved elusive .
to be sure , if wilson were alive this day , he might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be vastly different . for example , wilson would most likely concur with trump that the level of us openness in global markets is excessive . likewise , he would most likely advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes levied on the wealthiest companies and households ’ reductions in , say , renewable-energy development , high-quality education , and universal health care . but wilson ’s solution would likely focus on developing and implementing improved regulation through an inter-country-dominated multilateral process . in fact , it is problematic that america ’s banks and firms can export capital , technologies , and business as they please , with little or no regard for domestic costs .
unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , particularly those outside the firm , considered i to be a bit mad . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans bear our advice in building a global brand headquartered in japanese capital . unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , especially those outside the firm , thought i was a bit mad . when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of our labor force became proficient in english . but , in march 2010 , in a move i believe as key to our successive rounds of growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” a blueprint for making english our corporate language within two years .
but that would only further weaken the banking system ’s credit portfolios at a time when european regulators are already desperate to tighten them . europe has a second vicious spiral runs , from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . tax hikes and government spending cuts are all still needed ; there is no avoiding this reality . true , the ecb ’s decision to give banks unlimited liquidity solve governments ’ debt problems neither , nor is its intent alone . but it at least impedes the debt problem from creating banking problems , which , in turn , make the debt-workout problem worse .
this sterility and inertia are forcing europe to become less and less interesting for americans . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , technicians , and machine professionals . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy are contributing to the fact that 60 % of the world ’s new drugs are developed in the united states , compared to more than 40 % only ten years ago . this sterility and inertia make europe less and less exciting for americans . thus , american eyes turn elsewhere : to china , with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at more than 8-10 % , year on and year in spain , and to india , with its per capita gdp of 1.1 billion and 6 % annual growth .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami hit areas , more than a quarter-million people – far more than the last three years – the two isolated andaman tribes , relying on traditional warning systems , had suffered no unknown casualties . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have been pitted directly against loggers , miners , crops planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hunters , and other interlopers . with those reverence for – and understanding – the nature , such groups serve as the world ’s environment sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but they will likely die far more quickly if we are inching toward them soon , bringing with them modern pathogen pathogens , against which they have no antibodies . those tribes might be insulated , but their demise would have serious consequences .
of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty has , so far , been usurped by the soviet union , are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their own decision-making and share a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries . but rejecting the eu will not be winging them out of the uncertainties that are stemming from globalization . that is why it is so difficult to comprehend its position today . in my former professional roles , i have witnessed as few others to drive poland ’s accession to the euro-atlantic institutions . i saw circumscribe the eagerness and hope of their peoples at that momentous times .
no single country or group has ever created international maritime law , as it now exists . it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , having cultivated over a great many years in favor of the wellbeing of everyone . yet , to what , exactly , does this imply ? if we distill a spirit which we infused into international law over the ages and reformulate it as its three principles , the rule of homeland law has become a matter of common sense . today , many of the benefits for humanity depend on the seas from the asia-pacific to the indian ocean remaining fully open .
indeed , sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help to predict and avoid taking advantage of it . for example , the armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than the groups that recruit through other means . furthermore , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals also have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence – such as forced pregnancies . furthermore , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have an even higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence – such as forced pregnancies . to be sure , effective resolution must consider the local context .
a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty ’s creation , eu members agreed to respect the history , culture , and traditions of all their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which recently failed to gain acceptance in the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect its cultural heritage ; it obliges the union actively to protect , uphold , and develop the wealth of european cultural and linguistic diversity . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward to convey . but europe can succeed at this task only if its various constituent cultures can not seal themselves off from one another . because an enlarged union becomes a reality in only two months , it is imperative to develop concepts for the cultural understanding that contribute to the successful integration of new members .
if implemented successfully , this agenda is likely to reverse the global saving and consumption patterns that have underpinned major imbalances in recent years . to be sure , the global savings and consumption patterns have undergone considerable change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china even trying to restore internal balance . indeed , china has been responsible for the saving-short us saving side , whereas america disproportionately accounts for the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditors into america ’s . doubling average household income by 2020 – the target established at the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november – is likely to release $ 64 trillion of renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing-power-parity terms , with china ’s enormous internal market gradually becoming a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth . that model presupposes china to develop domestic capital , rather than simply relying on foreign investment .
i do n’t like quotas , either ; they run counter to my beliefs to a meritocracy . after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that corporations in europe just as well as american are evading meritocratic hiring and promotion of women to top positions , regardless of how much “ soft pressure ” is placed onto them . i understand re-ding ’s reticence – and her frustration – to do so . but , when one considers the obstacles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , one looks as if a fairer world had to be temporarily imperiled . when women are snapping through the july corporate summit – as with , for example , sheryl sandberg put it recently at facebook – they garner massive focus precisely because they remain an exception to the rule .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india ’s recent parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was not a professional politician , and i was never involved to any strategic assessment . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i entered the race without a political “ godfather . ” by contrast , all of the other contenders in my constituency – indeed , most contenders all contenders across the country – devoted their entire lifetime to policy , many since their student days . i had n’t even lived in india for a couple of decades , having spent my adult life working abroad for the united nations .
even without a jamaica coalition , germany still retains a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state today is a “ 50-50 societies ” : half of all cosmopolitan , “ half cosmopolitan , half cosmopolitan , communitarian . ” in those countries , the government at any given time represents the whichever side won the most recent round in an ongoing culture war . yet , eventually , such an experiment also failed . the fdp abandoned the set of frustrations that , as its leader christian lindner put it , “ the four debate partners have no common vision for the country ’s modernization or a common basis for confidence . ”
for starters , all countries need to define the crime of online child trafficking , and integrate it into their national penal codes , together with tough punishments for violators . all recruitment operations , ads , and financial transactions associated with online child trafficking should also be criminalized . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers . raising awareness on amr is also crucial – particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and age-appropriate sex education in schools may be leaving their children even more vulnerable . yet , parents must build trust bridges to ensure that their children feel capable of opening up to their problems .
given this , providing more teenagers with access to sex education and contraception would leave fewer girls able to break their own pregnancy . moreover , communities need increased access to sexual and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revitalize or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . these spaces should be opened after school and weekends staffed by a knowledgeable , sympathetic adult . these reforms are vital to improving guyana ’s life prospects . special attention must be devoted to rural regions and people with special needs , the often-overlooked segment of adolescents .
mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of the world ’s working-age population would prefer to earn an income , whether primary or secondary , from independent work . this suggests that stronger economic – and thus job-– growth would reduce the number of workers engaged in autonomous work . yet , regardless of fundamentally sound macroeconomic conditions , independent work tends to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . many are of the low - and middle-income workers that would otherwise have been unemployed . while digital-age platforms for independent work remain in early stages of their evolution and use up to just 15 % of independent workers , they are being proliferating and wide-ranging .
one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ” the demand to abolish censorship was one of the first political slogans of march 68 . demands for freedom of assembly and the legal right to organize itself were followed by such opposition . crucially , the protesters were not asking free elections at all . in this they were “ realists ” , but they did demand a measure of civic control by the authorities , both in the political and economic sphere .
new haven – in what could well be the ultimate desperation act , central banks are abdicating effective surveillance of the sort that they were charged to manage . adopting negative interest rates , originally launched in europe in 2014 , and has now embraced in japan , is posing a major turning point for central banking . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing and now embraced in japan , representing a major turning point for central banking . first came zero interest rates , initially launched in europe in 2014 , and now embraced in japan , representing a major turning point for central banking . previously , the emphasis was put on boosting aggregate demand , mainly by lowering borrowing costs , but also by stoking wealth effects from appreciating financial assets .
this , in turn , has encouraged more reliance on highly polluting coal , the worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . indeed , the price of permits has fallen below € three per ton per ton in april 2013 , rendering emissions-trading markets almost irrelevant . as a result , the demand now falls short of any binding constraint . that would not have happened had the price mechanism still been underpinning climate-change policy . furthermore , the eu ’s renewables policy has also proved ruinously expensive .
in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often balance bilateral surpluses with other countries . so , while china may run a trade deficit with the middle east and its trade surplus with the us , these bilateral balances suggest nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . of course , it will be important to the fund to focus on global imbalances , rather than on bilateral imbalance . in fact , the task facing the imf is formidable to begin with . while china might actually want oil from middle eastern countries , but those elsewhere in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – might be more interested in a gucci handbags than in a china of mass-produced goods .
asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a scale ranging from zero ( worst life ) to ten ( in the best of life ) , americans in 2018 reacted with a 6.9 average , down from 7.0 in may 2017 , and 7.3 during 2006 . stress , worry , and anger all hit ten-year american highs in 2018 . the america was seventh-stressed populations in the world in 2018 , less well stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . these stress measures are in keeping with another notable finding : american self-reported happiness also declined in 2018 . asked about their emotions the preceding day , most of the americans ( 55 % ) said that they experienced stress over a number of days , almost half ( 45 % ) said that they had felt worried about many , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they had felt outrage at many .
a written code – emphasizing the commercial benefits of ethical business conduct , with adverse consequences for falling short – is part of that effort , and may help to preserve and strengthen a culture ; but a code alone is not enough . constant reminders and repetition are essential . employees need to understand instinctively what could be done , and what should never be done . they need to internalize a culture that is impeded by strict ethical standards of conduct . to this end , banks should make their values and cultures attentively fearful for their hiring , firing , and promoting decisions .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the fair vote , and today most women in the developed world hold their representation . that was certainly true in pakistan , where a general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . in france , however , in many developing countries , the resistance that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny , persists . at first sight , pakistan appears progressive . the law has permitted women to vote since 1956 , nearly a decade after independence from britain .
in some cases , the outcome was unexpected : some lending rates actually increased . in some cases , the result was unexpected : some lending rates actually increased . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just when the euro crisis worsened and unemployment rose to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . they continued to use the old , discredited models , perhaps mildly modified . none foresaw the crisis ; and in very few of these economies , some semblance of full employment has been restored .
its members – which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his latest wife – were as incompetent at governing as kim , but , following the catastrophic effects of the cultural revolution , the antagonism toward them at the military and other state institutions was too prevalent to last . because he had no son of success , mao designated a five-person politburo to do the job . but mao ’s death did , in reality , put an end to china ’s caesarism era . they , and the new gang of 6 ( of which jiang qing was a member ) were soon ousted . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism and then from marxism to capitalism made it fortunate to china ’s citizens .
the most fateful attack to accompany installing any form of dictatorship is an attack on civil society . we in ukraine have learned this truth from the harsh lessons of the communist era . though communism could , each now and then , coexist with private wealth , and at times with private entrepreneurship , it could never coexist with a civil society . in ukraine , freedom of speech was on communism ’s fall ; again , it was restored overnight . yet a revived civil society – the many mutually reinforcing ways in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , as both egypt and tunisia will soon discover .
even more to the point : would trump be quick to invoke the principle of collective defense under section 5 of the nato treaty ? then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies had validated it as an act of aggression , despite putin ’s own denials . would putin have called to ask , what is happening now ? would putin have called on to ask what would he be doing ? and would putin be making another “ unbelievable offer ” to help us investigators get to the bottom line ?
and china ’s economy has been proving doubters wrong for many years . by now , the baseline scenario for america is still strong growth . so , 2019 could turn out to be another year of robust global growth into necessarily bleak . europe ’s ’s growth could be as high as it can , as it sustains its long run , slow recovery from the pre-crisis debt crisis . but these external risks do n’t make the global growth outlook necessarily bleak .
argued by eugene scalia , the son of america ’s supreme court justice antonin scalia , a case against the sec was won in the american court of appeals , dc circuit breakers , on a technicality – the sec ’s failed bid to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . this small win turned a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than performing such an analysis and redesigning the rule , had chosen to stall . at a conference last december , i asked sec chair mary lawrence iro , when her agency intended to reintroduce that rule . i had even been offering to conduct cost-benefit analysis for free . but she did admit that the sec had many other items on its agenda , and placed the issue squarely on the back burner burner – a polite way of saying that the sec , like the heroic students in tiananmen square , had given rise to irresistible pressure .
in brief , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic have responded to the financial crisis but failed to overreact . and in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . the european central bank ’s response has been analogous to the fed ’s , yet less misguided , with monetary policy easier than headline inflation rates would suggest . indeed , the fed ’s expansionary monetary policies have been insufficient to stave off an american recession , even if one remains so modest that many doubt whether it qualifies as an actual animal . but these are not ordinary times more of them , and they are still much more so in western europe .
when the opposition sought to challenge these failings , the eck abruptly declared kibaki the victor . days later , the eck ’s head publicly confessed that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce the “ results ” results ” , despite glaring evidence of voting rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who actually won the election tally . the election is a disaster for kenya , but the international community ’s response , led by the american people , is no less distressing . the eu observers also announced that it had failed to recognize the election tally .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone manufacturers hard , particularly in germany . given that market-based actions currently conflict with most other key economic data , little weight should be consigned to them . moreover , a host of risk-sharing difficulties makes such indicators difficult to interpret . but it is hardly difficult even for monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of trade barriers . unsurprisingly , current global trade tensions have hit eurozone manufacturers harder , particularly in germany .
as a recent morgan stanley report highlighted , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rates appear insufficient to sustain large inward r & d organizations , making the industries ’s current operating model financially unviable . at first glance , it seems counter-intuitive that companies would want to share data and potentially give away competitive advantages . but this presupposes that possession of such data actually entrenches a competitive advantage , and that a closed operating model is financially sustainable . drugs that make it into the marketplace need to fund the costs of failures by those that did not make it market . but , for that matter , pharmaceutical companies continue to withhold assumptions on the boundaries of the pre-competitive collaboration needed to adjudicate .
nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines a world petroleum price , is an appalling scenario . so far , the markets have adopted the measure of the past week ’s tensions , by pushing the price of some oil contracts to their highest level in just eight months . while the iranian government could most likely be dissuaded from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear-armed iran may well enter into a regional arms race – a nuclear-armed saudi arabia , possibly followed by spain and egypt . despite the tightening economic noose – the united states imposed sanctions on all companies doing business with iran ’s central bank , and the european union ’s plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports in late january – many us nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb . efforts to compel iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions have failed to generate results .
that levy , vigorously backed by those countries whose financial sectors are in tatters in the wake of the crisis , is hard to swallow the eu member states that did not intervene in order to bail out their banks . if applied , bank capital would become scarcer , credit flows slower , and bank fees higher in countries with a pretty stability-oriented fund sector , simply because others have spent the fortune to support their financial systems , and because the european commission never misses an opportunity for pooling rules across the eu . the levy is an easy way to spread the political and fiscal costs of the crisis from some to all eu members . the same is true , for instance , for the trading system of derivatives . the levy is an easy way of spreading the political and fiscal costs of crises from some to all eu members .
learnup , the san josé startup , which has attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , sets partnerships with employers to offer online on-the-job training , primarily entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . the employers foot the bill with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . at & t offers scholarships through partner nonprofit institutions , and provides paid internships to up to 100 graduates . employers foot the bill with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . and , indeed , once the candidates completed train , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already include a few major companies . at & t offers scholarships through partner nonprofit institutions , and provides paid internships for up to 100 graduates .
porto – the military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country , poses enormous dangers not only for egypt ’s post-independence democratic transition , but for democratic hopes across the entire arab world . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood also fell victim to its own flaws , particularly the failure of morsi and his government to reach out to secular opposition , elements that contributed to his election . the fact that the coup was undertaken with massive popular support signaled the tremendous difficulties that the muslim brotherhood faced during its initial turn in power . in fact , president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the tremendous public expectations produced by the 2011 arab revolutions , whose protagonists sought not only freedom , but also economic development and social justice . a morsi government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority would not be sufficient , especially now .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial charged its complicity in the genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . now , unfortunately , the mass killings in africa are continuing . in south sudan , africa is the newest state , carnage of civilians still taking place , particularly around libor . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope . and the french military intervention in the central african republic has not pushed a halt to severe inter-communal violence there .
moreover , with growing concerns about the sustainability of america ’s fiscal policies , the euro has a huge opportunity to play a significantly larger role as the reserve-currency status quo . europeans may not mind this right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than the us ) , but perhaps they might not be so happy if , as george bush iii comes along . one shudders to think what will happen unless europe withdraws from its current funk . fortunately , europeans will most likely wait for that long to start moving ahead again . certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight to u.s. global economic policies .
the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and trial-level cutting . a crucial component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor market – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast . that implies that it has not been prudent to focus on growth until the deflation gap narrowed greatly – that is , up until now . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor with the japanese economy .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s removal from politics is all the more striking given images of chaos emerging from gaza that israel has vacillated and the breakdown of the palestinian authority ahead of our eyes . the nature course of history in its most optimistic sense is progress on the france , ” ” but the rapid pace of technological change is pressuring us to expect equally rapid progress in human affairs . many in us believe that such an impossible stick can be fulfilled merely through providential man , with all the hopes – and dangers – that this entails . nor will the rise of another providential figure become easy . not all exceptional periods are fabricating their bonapartes ; and this seems a good thing ; for exceptional leaders , it may convey the delusion that all problems have solutions is far from the true one .
still , the uk has so far played a leadership role in designing key eu policies , including measures relating to the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . uk leadership in these areas has been sharply appreciated , and would still be sorely missed , british decision-making to leave . indeed , at last year ’s brexit negotiations over the “ fiscal compact ” was already intended to cameron ’s difficulty in deploying a so-called “ national ” veto . the uk has been in no position to block other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other eu member states ’ political will to move forward . so , while the cameron government ’s endorsement of deeper eurozone integration is a welcome development , it can not , and will not be , shaped from outside and according to british interests .
in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s united states ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni city of hama , in july , after assad ’s father ordered a massacre 30 years earlier . it is already evident that the obama administration did not know what it was bargaining over bargaining for when , aware of what should come next , it appealed to assad ’s removal in 2011 . according to the us state department at that time , “ [ t ford , ” america ’s ambassador to syria , was sent into the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered a massacre 30 years earlier . according to the us state department at that time , the point of the visit was to “ “ “ [ expressed ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and to express themselves . ” but they will fault the us for not comprehending an even greater war .
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has come under increasing pressure to float the currency . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and open-capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , triggering an increase in domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow to foreign currencies , inducing them to borrow foreign currencies , inducing them to float their currencies . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank to maintain exchange-rate stability , intervening by selling domestic currency , particularly american dollars , until interest rates and the money supply returned to their initial levels . all of economics students learn the mundell-fleming model , under the assumption that an economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , loose capital movements , and an independent monetary policy simultaneously .
in order to limit costs and prevent abuse , profits totaling more than 10 % on top of the employee ’s payroll would be excluded ; the total amount offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against replacing for-profit sharing for pay , raises and create other benefits . america ’s presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : a 15 % tax credit for the profits that companies distribute to workers over the next two years . likewise , a tax credit could foster change in corporate culture , by promoting boindividuals ’ level of debates not only of the benefits of profit sharing , but also of sharing information and decision-making authority with employees . by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies to compensate for the managerial costs of establishing a profit-sharing program . the stagnant incomes of most american workers are undermining economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and on supply-side products ( through adverse effects on educational opportunity , human-capital advancement , and innovation ) .
by contrast , people seem to be identifying with putin ’s message that the establishment is at last being driven by corruption . and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even though , like abyzov and ishayev , they retire from public services , and no longer exert their influence . most russians see no link between prosecution of key figures and the authorities ’ credibility . moreover , selective repression has become increasingly harsher . but it is the message to russia ’s more resentful elites .
likewise , it backed a commission successor , a high-level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to poor policies in a number of areas . the new report highlights several topics , like trust and insecurity , which had been addressed only briefly by mismeasuring our lives , and explores a few others , like inequality and sustainability , more deeply . at the oecd ’s 6th world forum on statistics , cognition , and policymaking in incheon , south korea , the group issued its report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . improved indicators would have exposed the highly adverse – and potentially protracted – effects of a deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so enamored of austerity that lowered fiscal deficits but lowered national wealth , properly measured , even more .
it is for these reasons that we seemed frozen for past generations , or two whenever we contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about reforming and regulation of financial markets from its first three purposes , and found himself “ moving toward … mak [ ing ] the purchase of an investment permanent and indissoluble , like marriage … ” but it was far more willing to run an option … ” moreover , “ [ t ] his game of professional investment is intolerably tedious and over-exacting to anyone who is totally exempt from gambling instinct ; whilst he has to pay to put himself in that propensity to appear to be an appropriate toll … ” ” moreover , “ [ t ’s ] gaming play of professional investment is intolerably tedious and over-exacting to anyone who is completely exempt from gambling instinct ; whilst he has to pay to keep that propensity for which the appropriate toll … ” but it is still far more willing to run according to question . and it is precisely why , even in the face of severe financial crises , we remain froze today . it is for these reasons that we appeared frozen for past generations , or two , whenever we contemplated for reforming our system of financial regulation .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon of import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no us tariff on oil , and just a $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidies that america ’s corporations ( the huge proportion going to one firm ) receive on their ethanol . the enormous subsidies have meant that america has become the world ’s largest producer of ethanol . as a result , foreign manufacturers can not compete unless its costs are $ 1,05 per gallon lower than those of american manufacturers . yet , despite that enormous advantage , some foreign firms still can make it onto the american market .
the results not only have created a clash between american federal legislation and state legislation , but also a signal shift in attitudes not just regarding same-sex marriage . moreover , on the topic remains very highly sensitive : while the public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate a tiny majority in the first time in favor of legalization , their opponents remain vehement . the legal and political challenges lodged are no minor matter : marijuana remains the illicit substance found under american federal legislation and the international conventions that america has enacted . just as important were president barack obama ’s response to colorado and washington votes , the two states that it won readily in its reelection bid . on other issues – notably on immigration – obama rejects the claims of states ’ rights and insists on a federal authority .
whatever else is said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves little doubt about the benefits of social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colonies . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 produced a new “ democratic ” constitution , which became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions were rising from within , say , houphouet ’s death and aggravated , over the new constitution , which enshrined ethnic discrimination . some four million northerners were denied political participation or land-owning on the grounds that they were the offspring of neighboring countries ’ migrants . the result was catastrophic as ethnic rivalries sharpened .
these are highly well-educated people who know that knowledge is power , have a clear agenda , and are taking advantage of the fact that education in europe is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . in other words , access to knowledge ceases to be a civic right . in the long run , they also most likely desire the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer the right of knowledge . political personalities will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past . political personalities will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past .
dubai – globalization , as many have recently noted , is in retreat . mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations and the vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda on geo-economics , observed that interdependence , formerly economics , has now become an existential threat as much as anything else . despite all of its undeniable merits , it has sowed challenges of governance and governance that have exposed the ruthlessness of national governments and international institutions . this has left people everywhere , rich and poor , struggling to deal with problems – from failing states to failing banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but is incapable of addressing effectively . fragile institutions have given up a policy backlash and the dangers of catastrophe on multiple fronts .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the vision of a country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , for the most notable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its most shattering nature , but the fact is that china has provided president mahinda rajapaska , with both military supplies , as well as the diplomatic cover that he needed to prosecute the war . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system ; it has now displayed a degree of strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would lack neither the wherewithal nor the willingness to ignore world opinion in its offensive relations with the tigers . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china was completed .
germany has the greatest exposure by far among its countries to rescuing the eurozone ’s crisis-stricken countries , and thus helps to alleviate austerity more than any other country . when alexander hamilton , america ’s first treasury secretary , defaulted on state debts in 1791 , he brought this to an end to the new american nation . but the mutualisation of debt had yielded massive moral-hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively . should a euro breakup and gipsic countries default , germany alone would lose roughly € 545 billion , nearly half of the aggregate sum cited , as the bundesbank conducted most net payments on behalf of gipsic countries that are reflected in targeting-balances balances . george soros underestimates the risks that a debt mutualization would pose for the future of the eurozone .
hong kong – looking back on 2016 , there might seem little to be celebrating . in terms of global health alone , the year has emerged as an unrelenting tragedy . back then , hopes for a respiratory , syncytial virus ( spats ) were dashed . there was also the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes or “ superbugs , ” a continuing revival of yellow fever and the resurgence of polio in nigeria , which had previously been declared polio-free . beyond the stories of hospitals in conflict zones go bombed , the zika virus emerged as a growing threat .
history also shows us that financial exclusion is a persistent problem whenever universal service requirements have been absent . during the new deal era , regulators included the functional equivalent of such a requirement in banking and thrifts ’ charters . but those mandates were removed during waves of deregulation in the 1980s , and banks quickly proceeded to move away from low-cost financial services and toward higher-profit activities . when it comes to securing equity in banking , these precedents and current institutions are pointing the way forward . there is an ongoing trend toward bank consolidation and operational closings , which have been accelerating since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in lower-income communities .
after all , an israeli government not only authorized supposedly unapproved outposts to exist , but it also delivered them with water , electricity , the internet , and even military protection . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american people ’s congress that outright talks between israel and palestine entered into permanent seats , when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank . by december 2016 , obama allowed the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution , declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major barrier ” to a two-state solution . this has not been lost on all of america ’s leaders , and it is not hard to see what palestinian negotiators must have felt as driven by massive israeli settlements on territories that they worked to include within an independent national state . after all , until december 2016 , obama was allowing the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution , declaring israel ’s settlement construction as a “ major barrier ” to a two-state solution .
new haven : all over europe and america , the men in the black mistresses and women in october and armani gowns , an early number of summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and a glimmerglass . consider a thing of incontrovertible beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholics high mass . again , too , state coffers are tapped to back these privileged retreats . does its grandeur mean that the state should subsidize it ? perhaps , then , it is also time to ask once again a fundamental question : should the state continue to ladle out lavish subsidies for such elite actions ?
it is not surprising , therefore , that foreign-policy integration has delivered little progress . on defense and warfare , unpredictability incorporates the possibility of a young males dying in action . this contrast underlines the glaring accomplishments of eu integration , for no-man lashes out – the soil that lies between total national independence and the total loss of sovereignty within a confederation . but foreign policy , as we have known it , is fundamentally a manifestation of a nation state or a superpower . so a key feature of foreign-policy integration is that governments can not know in advance of what is being letting themselves stand for .
without additional support from the international community , our vision wo n’t be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . one thing i hope will become obvious at the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries cope with fragility and conflict . lebanon often struggles to attract financing , owing to its status as a middle-income country ; but that label is misleading , because it ignores the serious structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis , or an enormous proportion of the country ’s resident population , comprise refugees from syria , palestine , and iraqis living in abject poverty . the us faces a $ 100 million shortfall for a new school year . i am thankful for the afghan donors since the start , but now we need additional international support .
part of the problem , of course , is that we make resolutions to do only of these things that we are not otherwise likely to produce . so we are using the new year ’s occasion to try to change behaviors that might be the most difficult to make of change . what does this tell us about human nature and our ability to live preemptively or ethically ? that , in turn , makes failure to do so at all times , and it is not at all necessary to do that . part of the problem , of course , is that we are making resolutions to do just things that we are not otherwise likely to make .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overshot america ’s economy strength for 11 consecutive years . the odds of that now appear to be one in 2,048 . the fed has an obvious need to take a deep view about its forecasting methodology and policy processes . elementary mathematics dictates that plausible forecasts should at least overestimate the half-way and undershoot in half that time . a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overshot the strength of the american economy for 11 consecutive years .
such is the nature of the imperfect trustworthiness of psychiatric diagnosis to be reported . any study that seeks to tell whether psychiatric disorder has become over-diagnosed finds that some patients of the ground do not have a reinterview . how high a percentage should have been before asserting self-diagnosis provides significant problems and a judgment of value . but we think that an over-diagnosis rate of more than 50 % cross a clinical significance threshold . the question , then , is not whether some patients in the past have a diagnosis not to have it upon reinterview , but rather to how many .
at a time of severe economic distress , policymakers thrones about seeking solutions , with some people losing faith in the economic system itself . indeed , during the great depression of the 1930s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . in many previous banking crises , it was a country or region hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . this time , practically every economy suffers substantially , and a banking crisis is global in scope . policymakers will continue to cast off whatever ammunition they may find at the heart , but it will take time before deleveraging from a boom to run its course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s vast travels in europe earlier this year did not attract as much attention as they should have , given that he is the key theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signing brand of populist nationalism . by joining forces with then-french far-right leader marine le pen , herself an open supporter of russian president vladimir putin , bannon seems to have in mind a new kind of “ neo-nationalist ” international ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” of “ making . now , bannon wants to construct a federation of right-wing nationalist parties in europe . and yet , one wonders how an “ “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his own political project anywhere but in america itself . as more countries turn to “ nationalist autocracies ” and toward “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator .
diplomatic immunity from localized prosecution was the notion that sprang directly from another incident , almost a century earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , representing peter the great in london . macartney refused to conform to the chinese imperial protocol by collapsed to kowtow to the chinese emperor because he had no obligation to do the same thing to his own sovereign . as a result , the mission broke down . one celebrated incident of the late eighteenth century was lord macartney of the british mission for china ’s imperial court . this , too , was a very large case of keeping face ” there : the chinese had anticipated tribute ; the british lord insisted on the equal status of his king .
assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged over the next five years , and then will continue to rise from 2 % to about 5 % . during those five years , investors earns an additional 2 % each year for a cumulative gain of 10 % . if not , a loss in bond prices would more than wipe out the extra interest that they have earned , even as rates remained unchanged for five years . here is how arithmetic works for the investor who rolls over ten-year bonds , earning 2 % more annually than he or she would by investing in us treasury bills or bank deposits . but when the interest rate on an eye-popping ten-year bond rose to about 5 % , the bond ’s price falls from $ 100 to $ 69 .
simply put , the world ’s geopolitical and economic heavyweights , major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbon consumers can initiate change globally . change must start in the transport sector , which accounts for more than half of all current oil consumption – a share that will probably surge ahead of the future . the g-8 countries should thus agree no longer to license any new , oil-powered cars by 2025 . that decision would be directed not toward individual mobility , but against an dissipation of a scarce resource more urgently needed to produce synthetic materials . in the us , political leaders should not privilege any particular technology ; they should not .
ithaca – the us president-elect donald trump has once again succeeded in turning facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to task for the supposedly “ ratifying ” of the united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has now reneged on his accusation that the country manipulates its currency as a way to gain an advantage for its exports . make no mistake : trump ’s accusing of chinese currency manipulation is not supported by the facts . on the contrary , for the past two and a half years , members of the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have intervening in currency markets for the opposite purpose : preventing the renminbi from falling too sharply against the dollar . such statements are just as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian state states and national capital were held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping a minor cheek of girls , many indians found themselves confronting several painful truths about their country . the leader who has thwarted these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent among a few “ godman , ” ” ” ” ” or self-seeking spiritual leaders , to flourish across india . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurmeet ram rahim singh insan ; a hindu , muslim , and sikh names , followed by a word for “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , punjabi , and urdu . and he has his reputation for sexually exploiting his followers on several occasions . in march 2002 , two of these followers mustered brazil to issue a wake-up call .
by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program , if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions . to be sure , some imports would become more expensive to iran , but the economic effect of such sanctions would remain limited . but a clear-headed analysis of iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s own behavior indicates that eu sanctions would result in more trade diversion , against china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would not have abandoned any chance of exploiting unilateral actions for propaganda purposes , claiming that iran has a clash not with the international community , but with an imperialist ally intent on depriving his country of technological progress . for these reasons , europeans tend to favor a new security council resolution , even if its measures are weaker than what the un or eu might impose unilaterally .
postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that was consciously seeking to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . and yet it shares right-wing populists with the hostility of liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . certainly , abe and his allies are scrambling to quash that influence . his effort to revise japan according to a pacifist constitution , restore pride in his wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , won him a praise of donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , whom abe called a “ trump ” “ trump ” before trump . no one could be more identified with a political elite than abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister and a later prime minister , and the son of a foreign minister .
african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst sides of multinational corporations : energy , mineral , and precious metallic companies go where resources are , not where it would like to work . ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy , and maintaining a positive public picture . but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationships with global corporations need not be as constraining as they are . because its customers go abroad and there is very little processing they can do in the country , why should companies upgrade local skills or do it otherwise help a host economy ? as one former mining chief executive in the region put it to me , “ the objective ” has always been simple : get assets off the ground and out of the country as cheaply and with as little fuss as possible .
the first big city to boom was london , beginning around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow and shanghai , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other large cities have been booming pretty much before ; prices in most of those cities are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now the growth in home prices is waning across some of these cities , and yet has hurt anyone planning for buying . this made huge windfall to homeowners , but it hurt anyone planning for buying .
after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens increasingly view how they can protect their own economic and social interests through privilege . what is surprising is that the regime ’s surveillance mechanisms have been largely effective . the government employs a host of new legal regulations , shadowy online police task forces , and powerful hardware-based national intelligence filtering scheme . control also relies on internet users ’ demography , most of whom are owned by china ’s economic elite , and embrace the internet as part of a newfound consumer lifestyles than they are as instruments of a political or social revolution . yet it is also spurring profound social change , rooted in a rising individual ’s rights consciousness within society , something strengthened – and uppermost – not only by economic growth , but by the internet ’s rapid spread .
this european polity lacks the second critical element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . as a result , nationally elected representatives are held accountable for making crucial eu-level decisions . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are made within the eu . yet , while a common european cause tends to emerge daily , they have little in common with political representation . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent european citizens linked to them , because none had to compete for europe-wide public support .
this time , too , the name has not been mentioned in the title of a deep economic thinker or of any particular economic model . obama originally had a marvelous team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . and yet us presidential campaigns generally neglect discussion of consultants or intellectual influences . is there anything more , in fact , that one can still ask of a deep economic thinker or of any particular economic model . although a presidential candidate might make a difference , one would think that the candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically what they are selling is their ability to judge and manage expertise , not their own capacity as economists .
they can not simply wait for america to make the move , nor can they invariably seek to placate washington ’s preferences . for another , they will have to make their own , distinct , contribution . after all , the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the us is preventing eu members from seeming and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help to reinforce the commitment of arab states to the coalition against terrorism , as well as provide useful shove to american diplomacy . in short , they will have to make their own , distinct , contributions . what that apparent contribution could be made is not difficult to define . they can not simply wait for america to make a move ; nor can they invariably seek to placate washington ’s preferences .
as a result , health-care professionals are often aware of these patterns ’ symptoms and the biology of such illnesses . earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease day program in california . the topic was an obscure but large-scale collection ( more than 70 ) of illnesses caused by a specific kind of genetic error – one that takes the form of cells ’ machinery that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known about what causes mutations giving rise to such congenital disorders ; and treatments do exist for only a few . one reason for this is that a small number of patients make studying illnesses and test drugs difficult .
while corruption is more a symptom than a cause for ukraine ’s own troubles , a culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . in time , this “ corruption ” culture ” ” ” ” ” ” ” permeates society . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are routinely being bought and sold . markets become rigged , fairness becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the upper bidder . one might presume that this simply calls for a strong state , with the means taking root of corrupt politicians and business businessmen .
by contrast , settlements offer cheaper home ownership than is affordable in israel , thereby solving one of the entire country ’s major economic problems . in israel , obama will encounter a country that , in fact , has moved , but not toward the absence of a center . “ red lines ” in israel have a way of swinging lines drawn in the sand that are then rendered invisible at the very slightest august break . the new government , ’s fragile equilibrium , has merely reinforces this kind of sober interpretation . nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion , either .
as a result , the ratio of tax revenue to total spending this fiscal year has fallen below 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . japan had a similar experience during the 1990s , a country of so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit had soared after the country ’s real-estate bubble had burst , triggering economic stagnation . despite the weakness of japan ’s fiscal position , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains solid , at least for now . despite the government ’s weakness , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains solid , at least for now .
still , zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . in late august , the heads of state of thirteen members of the south african development community ( sadc ) – including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges before them . so far , the mugabe regime has been roiled by outrage , following outrage . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that enabled mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and hollering supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; transformation of a benighted , prosperous country once considered africa ’s breadbasket to an area in which half of the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , as exemplified in its attacks on the daily news , the country ’s suppression of obscure voices . among the 54 paragraphs of the final communiqué , two dealt with zimbabwe .
a 2014 pew study found that while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with the direction of national politics , 60 % were satisfied with governance within their local communities . and the american constitution allows individual states to function as what judge brandeis called democracy ’s laboratories by experimenting with innovative policies without putting pressure on entire countries at risk . there is a long – and wealthy – history of successful experimentation . a 2014 pew study found that whereas only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with the direction of national politics , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . state and local governments were leaders in the setting public primary and secondary education systems , as were state colleges and universities .
the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is the result of a huge drop in commodity prices , and of painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in peripheral countries . alternatively , price stability is being reigns in the eurozone as a whole . europe needs to strive for sustainable , non-inflationary growth and competitive job creation . only greece currently has slightly negative inflation rates . in other words , price stability is being replaced by debt-driven growth ?
proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always tricky , because it tends to occur against a background of strong fundamentals . additionally , oil-market speculation may have induced an echo of speculation , ” ” ” whereby ultimate users are buying refined products preemptively in an attempt to guard against future price hikes . they then take delivery on their premises to allow overall refined inventories to rise , but that increase is not part of reported commercial inventories . thus , record-high speculative prices probably gave way to bunker traders to loosen inventories , but those releases may have bought into the speculators , who are now active lessees of trade-storage capacities . the implication is that speculators can drive down prices and increase their inventories holdings , even as overall commercial inventories remain tiny .
but the two states lack the domestic revenue needed to support their respective institutions . in addition , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed , and will undoubtedly be continuing to witness – reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . to be sure , the arab spring has been toppling of some of these regimes , though not others . but the two states lack the domestic revenue needed to sustain their respective institutions . if they wish to survive well in the next century , they are likely to be subsumed under a union backed by a greater , stronger , and more established nation-state . such a state , whether to de-isiting de facto or with widespread formal recognition , will have an enduring lasting impact at the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) .
we are prone to thinking that novel risk-management products , like the novel type of insurance or financial derivatives , will mainly interest the wealthy or at least the relatively wealthy . in reality , new risk-management products are underway for some of the poorest individuals in africa , asia , and latin america . good fortune and a bad fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest ones are particularly vulnerable when adversity – like a hurricane in a us packed village – strikes . so risk-management , by smoothing income bumps , may be extremely significant in alleviating the effects of poverty . it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year .
that disconnect is nothing new ; it has always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and proletariat . in novgorod , i saw lukoil ( one of russia 's big private oil companies ) petrol web site . today , everyone negotiates life and hardships individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin yearning for a life uniform . that postcommunist boris yeltsin but although he sometimes proclaimed allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( citizens of russia ) , deprived – or liberated , it is a matter of view – russians of every collective life ; both the real life of shared hardship and the islamist half-life of soviet communist solidarity . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia 's large private oil companies ) petrol web site .
a new system in which irreversible bonds ” have replaced both quotas and desirability screenings would diminish such competition , while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . but , despite the potential benefits of cooperation in dominating illegal immigration , most countries – including the us and the united kingdom – are trying to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . greater international cooperation would maximize immigration of ’s economic benefits . they would act as an insurance-type insurance mechanism to shielding destination countries from the costs of fiscally motivated immigration and protecting source countries from costs associated with the loss of talented workers . pursuing this approach would , however , act as an insurance mechanism for both sides , shielding destination countries from the costs of fiscally motivated immigration and protecting source countries from cost associated losses for talented workers .
true ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy as a whole has shrunk by an estimated 23 % . germany , the top-performing european country , has registered miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the past six years . every downturn , after all , eventually comes to an end . the mark of a good policy is that it succeeds in making such a downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been . a mark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary otherwise .
warsaw – twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice between their own compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow like pope . here , a prominent writer , was “ poland ’s second christchurch . ” his first return visit to his native poland soon thereafter showed to every world the pope ’s new power . some had been horrified , others were wept along with glee . but , even in our incursions , we did not expect how much a new pope would change not only poland , but around the world .
yau and leung were barred from assuming their seats in the legislative council . while the hong kong courts surely could have handled the issue on their own , under “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is reassured by an independent court system , in addition to the right to elect its own legislature – an enraged china has intervened . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ hammer out ” article 104 of the base law , declaring that all of pres taken by office-holders must be “ solemn , accurate , utter , and sincere . ” to most hong kong ’s attorneys , the display of political authority represented not simply a reinterpretation of old rules , but a move toward making new ones . restraint , after all , is hardly a leninist virtue .
revebok , the multinational sportswear businesses , advertises its corporate code as being “ founded on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . prodded by groups like workers ’ rights consortium and the ethical trading initiative , some corporations promise to pay living wages , open up their factories to monitors , and even give employee employees a voice in the workplace . but the sensitivity of human rights did nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s world-declining status . society markets its soccer balls and other goods were “ guaranteed : a manufactured free from child labor ” label . the international labor organization reports that unions are in retreat to a majority of peoples .
in fact , the united states has already made the next logical step . the us securities and exchange commission requires companies that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these types of raw materials , and to ease risks within their supply chains consistent with oecd guidance if they are found to originate in specific conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the 12 member countries of the international conference on the great lakes region have each committed to a similar compulsory demand for due-diligence . responsible sourcing is a task , not a choice . that , then , is as it should be .
the majority of their productive and financial assets are owned by foreign corporations , just because most of the rules governing their economies have shaped the eu . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to claim that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays the right into their hands , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring eu countries to declare anathema any move toward autonomous union and the empowerment of the federal authority and legitimacy . yet the truth is that cee countries have little to lose from the way of sovereignty . they will conclude that they may have both ways , hold back the gains from economic integration , without losing the capacity of the infringe upon their citizens to protect eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships and reinforce their hold over the state .
as the recently released report “ toward a green economy ” : pathways for sustainable development and poverty-eradication efforts show , a market-based economy as today has resulted in misallocations of capital on an unprecedented scale . true , profound and pervasive market failures – involving carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental and ecological breakdowns , undermining human well-being and enhancing social equity . one concern among critics of this is that a transition to a green economy will basically monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , freshwater , and fisheries to the profit-seeking behavior of bankers and traders – whose deficiencies have helped to trigger just another four years ’ financial and economic turmoil . that is why the link to governance institutions and institutions at rio +20 is just about as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are manpower that require the rules and institutions to guide not only their direction , but also its borders themselves . the kind of systemic crises in the food , fuel , and finance that hit headlines in 2008 and are ongoing in many countries , have their roots in an economic paradigm that has failed to account for linguistic values and its numerous life-supporting services .
third , as usual , israel has charged with anti-semitism those who have dared to criticize its own disproportionate reaction to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment by the palestinians . coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza has come at the very same time that the clutch of america the most distinguished would-be middle eastern redoubt has published books about how the task ought to be properly tackled . it has all sounded a little like a series of employment claims – a war for president barack obama ’s ear . by that standard , had my self-professed critique of hamas ’s rocket attacks made me islamophobes ? an italian cardinal , who admittedly spoke intemperately , was accused of using the language of holocaust denial . by that standard , was my ununqualified critique of hamas ’s rocket attacks made me islamophobes ?
the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese were emboldened during the final , bloody push that culminated sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the 2009 tamil tigers . rajapaksa ’s unforeseen defeat by a thai coalition of sri lanka ’s democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election is an outcome that he then sought to annul should have put an end to both his career and race-baiting politics . but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , thai then-president mahinda rajapaksa has continued to play on ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . a similar political imperative is at the heart of the hindu sinhalese chauvinism that has made a sudden comeback for public life in sri lanka . but now the ex-president is mounting a bitterly comeback bid , and may well win a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
schools all over the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now require security schemes to guarantee their pupils ’ safety and offer confidence to their parents and communities . these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms become terrorists ’ true targets , viewing education as a threat . such attacks reveal with the stark clarity that providing education is not just about blackbodily boards , books , and curricula . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean “ fake ” ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of assaults is emerging by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria is the worst affected .
modest seed financing can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . modest seed financing can go a long way toward helping ie-owned businesses get off the ground . meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including mine , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including amazon , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . some , such as tent , encourage companies to hire refugees and integrate into the supply chains where they live .
the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their current knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems . that is why it is increasingly being discarded in favor of the agro-ecological model , based on the principles of food sovereignty . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will convene in rossier sheikh , egypt , for the fourteenth meeting of the parties to the convention on biological diversity ( un biodiversity conference ) . while there , they will be considering whether to turn the brakes on gene drives , to ensure that farmers and indigenous peoples consult fully before such technologies can be unleashed in their communities . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to protect food supplies , just as farmers ’ rights have been provided worldwide .
it is not exactly clear how long venezuela ’s prime minister hugo chávez was in fact dead before his passing was officially announced . the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and the practice in the ottoman empire of retaining sultan ’s death sentences for weeks , until the succession was settled . but will that makes it suffice to create a chávista lineage ? to buy time to secure his own political future , venezuelan officials tacitly carefully stage-managed chávez ’s fiber-illness and eventual death , even suggesting near the end , while undergoing a convoluted and agonizing cancer treatment , still “ walking and exercising ” “ walking . ” the mise-en-scene emotional manipulation surrounding chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into electoral support for his greek successor , nicolás maduro .
at the same time , governments in developed countries have a role to play in influencing the nature of technological innovation . all too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than pushing innovations in socially more beneficial directions , augment rather than replacing less-skilled workers . of course , such policies are not likely to make much of a difference for developing countries . for them , a major obstacle will remain that existing technologies enable little room for factor substitution : the use of less-skilled labor in lieu of skilled professionals , or of physical capital . the demanding quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not be met easily by replacing manual labor machines .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , america ’s president-elect donald trump will take office barely three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with a republican senate majority whose members won 13 million far fewer votes than their democratic opponents . trump will also launch his presidency with an approval rating below 50 % . only a republican majority in the house of representatives headed by speaker paul ryan does not hold a claim to represent a numerical majorities of 55 % of all americans who voted on the 2016 election day . this is unprecedented – or is unpresidented , ” ” as one of his seminal tweets clustered it ( before deleting it ) – – – in the history of such ratings . in fact , the administration of the world ’s oldest democracy is not democratic .
in turkey , ’s view , its western partners have not performed sufficiently well , through technology transfer and joint-production schemes to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . in contrast , the chinese and , to a lesser extent , russian firms have grown more receptive to such turkish claims as part of the latter through military procurements . the s-400 dispute is just the most recent example of how military procurement matters have created the rift between turkey and its western allies . and domestic deflationary interests are only part of the story . more broadly , turkey and the west are mired in geopolitical , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s own differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict .
underdevelopment in many southern countries , faring badly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world , creates the conditions of desperate poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , the unemployed beyond masterminding the atrophying state systems . as we embark on the still-new millennium , even though , it seems clear that tomorrow ’s potential disorder may be coming to pass , in no small part due to yesterday ’s colonial order . this is not to say that our response to the dangers that emerge from the legacies of the past must be rooted in the past . there is a greater need than ever before for innovative , forward-looking approaches to global governance . we will not be able to build a better world in the age of 21 st century by forgetting what took place during the age of 19 years of rome and much of the g-20 .
between the bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have been offering four cement bmd collaboration projects : · bi-national and multinational jointly manned centers , where russian personnel can see the unthreatening nature of the us and nato missile-defense activity ; · expanded nato-russia theater-level bmd exercises , which had been building on earlier collaboration , disrupted russia ’s august 2008 yom kippur war with georgian – and that rehearse ways of carrying out nato and russia ’s military might jointly to defend counter-missile threats ; · joint russian-american expert studies on how bmd might affect russia ’s own nuclear deterrent , and of the sort that steps can be taken to minimize potential problems ; · the underlying legal framework to encourage such and other cooperative projects , · the underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects .
though the tax package that trump signed into law last december front-loaded tax cuts and is now helping the us economy to grow , us government revenues have far more to react to this growth . he has already excluded from any changes toward social safety net . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) and curtail growth in medicaid spending have been unsuccessful . and a temporary increase in defense expenditures will be drawing back back from insufficient levels once that fiscal year is over . under these conditions , trump , one of the largest and boldest policies proposals is likely to run budget constraints .
granting observer-state status status to palestine would take off the table prospects for a “ one-state ” solution that has lately gained momentum among experts . still , the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite troubled demographic realities , not to mention the necessity of preserving the identity of the jewish state . a split vote thus undermining european interests , delivering a unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . indeed , europe ’s divided attitude toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record of attaining its foreign-policy consensus . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid will not prevent the eu from delivering a split vote , the reverberations that not only echo throughout the arab world , invite accusations of hypocrisy ; they will also hinder europe ’s effort to reset ties with countries across the middle east and north africa .
moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights the information ’s absence , when something is blocked – giving people the knowledge that it exists but that they may have no access to it . rather than demand an end to censorship now , the impossible dream – google is working to make that happen by eroding governmental control over information – is realized . with google , people are starting to expect answers about everything . on the other hand , each time someone in china has googles something and gets an answer – a product of both the size and bad points , details about someone ’s government does n’t like – one must wonder , why ca n’t i get this type of information about everything ? with google , people are beginning to expect answers about everything .
while no outcome was formally agreed or enforced public , several themes emerged from the beijing meeting . first , there was widespread acceptance that the un ’s responsibility to protect ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the united nations general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . taken together , they offer reason for confidence that it may be possible to recreate an international consensus , so long gone in syria on the question of how to deal with the hardest massachusetts cases . r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to assist them to do so ; and that if a state is manifestly failing ” to protect its people , the wider international community has a responsibility to tread with “ timely , decisive action , ” knowing which to include military action under the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the entire r2p enterprise , particularly its sanction of military action in exceptional circumstances , is just “ old neo-interventionist ” in a new bottle .
by concentrating on these problems that i am not trying to belittle globalization on ’s benefits . global integration has brought tremendous advantages : the international division of labor that so manifestly demonstrated a theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic advantages such as economies of scale and the rapidly spread of innovations from one country to the other ; that are less easy to demonstrate through static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic benefits like freedom of choice associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and humans ; and the freedom of thought that includes international coalitions of goods , capital , and humans , as well as freedom of thought linked to the international movement of international ideas . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only through a deliberate and relentless effort to right and contain the system ’s shortcomings . so the global economy should indeed think like the global capitalist system . but it is global capitalism that is not without problems ; we must understand these better if the system is to survive .
this is neither a constitution nor a law . making matters worse for trump , the widely admired mueller in effect has advised that the us congress is passing the impeachment process . indeed , trump has been portraying the report ’s findings as wholly exonerating it ( “ no collusion , no obstruction ” ) , even though the mueller message explicitly stated that this was not the case . mueller explained that a controversial us department of justice intended to help president richard nixon , bars the impeachment of a sitting us president . ( nixon was an unindicted collaborator in watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in the new york case involving his participation in a pre-election little payoffs to silence two women with whom he had sexual liaisons soon after the birth of his son , barron . )
renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only bring the risk of open warfare with russia , but strain relations with armenia , because here there are well over 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support an breakaway rule . moreover , russia was enforcing georgian trade embargo in the hope of weakening the resolve of its pro-western new president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to react militarily to prevent its country from unraveling . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to react militarily to prevent its country from unraveling . another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian backing ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
before germany ’s new coalition government emerged , the franco-german working group was set up to consider macron , his proposals . on this front , macron already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for it , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of member states of the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold france ’s finance minister accountable . now that merkel , with her new administration in place , will determine how far germany remains willing to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , a new government seems unlikely to back macron ’s proposals in its current form , the new administration . europe needs to make progress on the first opportunity , provided it can seize a second , and that means strengthening the eurozone .
furthermore , the recent establishment of two more big mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a less balanced public-private blended in development finance policy . the financial crisis has also prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs and other countries to expand their own . and the large , ndbs can have a large impact , particularly in emerging economies . as a result , ndbs can have a great impact , particularly in emerging economies . today , they are an important feature of the most advanced and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably those in china , germany , indonesia , and south korea .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , the fact is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives , by design ’ plan , essentially will address one big issue at the time , the rundown of britain ’s strong diplomacy by creating an even bigger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
the answer could affect egypt ’s ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . as many commentators have pointed out , from islamists ’s standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks remarkably like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american backing ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , when it enforced an elected islamist government out of power ; and the american government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won the 2006 election in gaza . more generally , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever reason , is weakening processes , institutions , and checks on state power that makes a liberal democracy work . so what should the us and other arab governments support for liberal democracy now ? if choices for the islamists continue bullets or ballots , bullets can now look more promising .
for example , in early january , rwanda , and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such laborers to wage the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , from 2000 to 2015 , the prevalence of malaria declined by 75 % . yet the world continues to underestimate frontline health workers ’ capabilities and contributions . this not only undermines their capacity to do their jobs efficiently ; it also puts them at considerable risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling assaults against those providing them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and anti-muslims .
once the potential nato “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union had vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . at first , nato ’s new members were declared that they had satisfied both their democratic and military criteria . later those criteria were abandoned when nato started inviting even the most backward and corrupt states to join . the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : bringing in the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . more to the point , nato not only enlarged its membership ; it also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iran , and afghanistan ) .
ironically , this has led the imf to focus on its oversight role . the fund normally expects that problems originated in the usual suspects – economically volatile developing countries – but this time the crisis was developing some miles away from its imf headquarters . perhaps that proximity was at the root of the imf ’s inability to interpret the evidence right under its nose . if it does , it is a failure that will raise two key questions . so , in seeking the causes of the imf ’s failure , we can override a distraction from even more urgent matters .
it is this concrete , “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un , that is vital to our understanding of the french position on libya . indeed , the same relationship between france and the un , which brought about poland ’s defiance of intervention in iraq in 2003 , has now pressured france to intervene in libya in 2011 . it is a shift that raises an important question : if those in france who are ready to act demonstrated incapable of doing so successfully , ” ” ” what will happen to global stability , unless those who are in a position also remain willing to step in ? at a crossroads of that question stands nato , an organization perceived by europeans and an international ( i.e. , not an american ) by an average american citizen . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command on earth in libya , it is the un , which has given the green light to french actions there .
but if that hour were truly a place with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) might have to lie deliberately in hiding it . if the official meets with a lobbyist and is generally not ashamed , then it could simply say so . if the official encounters with a lobbyist and ca n’t be ashamed , then doing so can be said simply . there is , of course , no way to enforce full disclosure , but , through the creation of explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset the norms . but , if that hour were really a place with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) could have to lie deliberately in hiding it .
and there is the risk that the tech giants , for their part , will use their overwhelming armies of programmers to develop an almost identical product , with their vast legal resources to defend it . big tech firms might argue that all of the capital they pour into new products and services , by pushing for innovation . one suspects , however , that , in many circumstances , the intent is to nip potential competition in the bud . and there is the risk that the tech giants , using their vast armies of programmers to develop an almost identical product , and their vast legal resources to defend it . it is notable that big tech still has the vast majority of its revenues from its companies ’ core products – such as apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s office and google search engine , amazon .
in other words , precisely because occasional merchants of traders are seldom involved , they are far easier to establish a nexus of causality between their trades and the illegal ttip . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes hundreds of trades everyday trades . for example , when a miniscule australian bank received from someone who never traded a major order for shares of us shoe shortly before being acquired by the italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not very difficult to odlize a fish . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such connections through telephone surveillance has come through telephone surveillance . historically , both the state and the federal attorney general ’s generals have tended to adhere to the prosecution of “ occasional ” traders who adhered to like morass thumb .
yet barely one-third of young africans know how to prevent hiv , another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence ; it is all too often perpetrated with impunity . african girls are also disproportionately vulnerable to the suspension of hiv . roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still exceed twice as likely as boys to carry the virus . yet sexual violence is being used as a tactic of war , no less than a criminal issue .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we are living in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . this may be true much , or at least most , in history . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change the course of history . one man or a woman ’s actions , whatever his or her ability , may not determine nations ’ destiny . that was certainly true in russia , and could soon turn out to be true in turkey as well .
as i show in a new peer-review paper , even if successful , agreement reached in paris would cut temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 degrees celsius . that might seem surprising : we repeatedly hear how every country has made important commitments to reduce co2 emissions – the so-called “ intended nationally determined contribution rate , ” ” ” or the indcs . according to the un ’s climate chief of christiana figueres , “ the indcs ” have the capability to limit the predicted temperature rise to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 – by no means sufficient but many below the estimated four , five or more warming degrees projected by many of its prior . the sea-level rise would be reduced by just under 1.3 centimeters . as figueres has suggested , the paris agreement will cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ºc to 2.7 ºc , though her formulation was crafted to practically make this point , predictably , in what most people have heard .
upholding eu rules is no longer practical enough , because the current system imposes too many constraints and contains too few effective adjustment mechanisms . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is exclusively responsible for getting its own house in order , while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory obligations . meanwhile , the eu will most likely not pursue substantial policy or institutional reforms in the near term , for fear that doing so could adversely impinge on the outcome of consequential elections later this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy . indeed , anti-euro political forces are understandably making electoral inroads and will continue to take ground as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high . an alternative view holds , of course , that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as wake-up call , and spur europeans toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies .
russians realized that they had no need to win at all costs ; they might have been great without the kremlin ’s militarist say-so behavior . yet , like 9/11 , 53 % of the population said they were prepared to protest further . and on september 9 , while the local government ’s elections had taken place , tens of thousands of russians had joined the protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” ” ” ” on election days . navalny himself could not attend the event , after being arrested on behalf of a previously unsanctioned demonstration . then came the announcement of a pension reform , spurring a string of protests that drove putin to pledge to soften the measure while asking russians to ’s understanding .
china ’s imperial nation and society was destabilized by european incursions . by the time europe and the us crossed walk into the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military-related advantages , forcing china into a series of gradual , humiliating concessions . indeed , china squandered its economic and technological potential by itself , rather than arising from external powers . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 under external pressures and internal demands for change . change , however , occurred not to occur smooth .
where land today is cheap , it will have great value in the future , if only someone takes the dramatic step in planning and creation of an entire city there . private developers have trouble getting a large conspiracy free of restraint . but they have a tendency to be ingenious at developing glamorous new regions from little towns in the hour of commutes from major cities . the obvious achievement of such cities , as both the state and economics centers , attests to the growing value of urban land from the presence of a well planned urban there . true , the establishment of such cities is a comparatively rare occurrence .
so far , venezuela ’s governing elite , and much of the investment community , has assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : none of its blueprints for chavez , no possibilities , mere badmouthing . there is no imminent crisis to come to pass , but chavez must choose venezuela ’s future . it can last for time but will create increasing friction with its economic re-alignment and an increasing incentive for chavez ’s future . going statist/populist , for 2001 will be a year of crisis . if he obviates the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , a road for growth and stability will be found .
huge surpluses in the three years since 1999 far outweigh the official deficits predicted in the coming two years . nonetheless , the independent forecasters are now more pessimistic about the future . the average surplus on the “ current ” budget since the beginning of 1999 outweigh the official deficits projections of 0.8 % of gdp . that means that the treasury expects the average surplus to be in the period from 18 2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , enabling brown ’s strictures to be met . growth is forecast to return above 2005-06 trend , bringing the current cycle to an end .
if successful , a new revolution can lead to strategies that make us ever more responsive to our better angels . in the process , we may well understand that we tend to vote , because that is what citizens ’ obligation to do and excel at our job , because we strive for respect and self-realization , not just uplifting . instead , strategies derived from the view that all of our behaviors were selfish , with the intellectual challenge they would be to design “ incentive-compatible ” schemes or treaties , an effort that was also recognized with nobel prizes . but , as georgia ’s price showed long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least toward people we perceive as members of the group that we call “ us ” to be . a new revolution in economics can find some space for strategy that builds on ideals and identities , not just taxes and subsidies .
such openly thuggish rulers as ukraine ’s kuchma or belarus ’s lukashenka is almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . of course , nato can not safeguard democracy on their own , and is no panacea for our great many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and uphold the rule of law . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato ( i.e. , american ) control , thus any attempt at staging a coup , or stirring up trouble between the christian romanians and the us as a result of our sizeable hungarian minority can be avoided . nato fixes hard limits on the autonomy of local political elites to do anything that they can . the more solidly tied to a democratic world a country like romania is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest , or to eviscerate its democratic system .
in fact , the consequences of a country ’s leadership degeneration are proving easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tension , and a loss of government credibility . the puzzle is why neither the compelling , self-destructive logic of autocratic rule , nor mounting , evidence of worsening regime performance in china has jaded even some of the most knowledgeable observers that the end of ccp rule has now become a distinct possibility . an obvious explanation lies in the power of conventional thinking . that , at its most general , is the underlying dynamic drivers of corruption in china today . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviets , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically considered invulnerable to it , even just before they collapsed .
some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , who falsely says gaveled at a shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in 1960 , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners . on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to take advantage of the flush toilet adjoining his room and , instead , to use the chamber of the pot that he had brought to light from china . perhaps he suspected that stalin , as a bbc allege last year , had been collecting and analyzing his feces to glean information about the great helmsman standard of temperament . yet there is a tipping point about the recent behavior of the chinese . when it comes to the diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what the british bet would call the form .
that is why so-called “ system liberals , ” ” ” ” or loyalists who stand for kremlin-backed change want to wrest control of the protest movement , and have used it as a lever in the ultimate struggle against “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . system liberals believe that russia has , on the whole , built an acceptable market economy . until recently , polish loyalists had argued that the quest for change precludes criticism from a government that somehow was influenced by a more constructive order . its pursuit of further development calls for only removing some of putin ’s henchmen through controlled political reform . indeed , a potential heir today needs legitimacy , stemming from the power of some of putin ’s henchmen through controlled political reform .
of course , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of its political and human-rights problems , such as low levels of war in chechnya or the yukos affair . similarly , my office defended the liberal weekly novoe vremya ( new delhi ) perceived to be pressured by moscow ’s municipal government on the pretense of a lease on life . that fight is not out , but , following my intervention , the moscow ’s authorities must take into consideration publicly ’s negative attitude toward their efforts to quash this publication . my office has been working closely with the state to assure that , at most nowadays , juries are being used . my office has been paying ultimate attention to chechnya , though this will not easily spread from moscow .
new delhi – the international debate over china ’s rise has centered on its rising commercial muscle , its growing maritime ambitions , and its expanding capacity to project military might . one critical issue , however , typically escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical parallels . no other country has ever succeeded in assuming such unchallenged riparian preeminence on a continent , by controlling multi-international sea headwaters and manipulating its internal flow . asia ’s water map was fundamentally altered after its 1949 communist victory in china . china , the world ’s largest dam builder , with slightly more than half of some 50,000 large planetary dams around the planet , is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive hydro-engineering projects on a transnational river .
as stanford university ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , first , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . in america , holding workdays elections , rather than weekends or holidays , combined with restrictive regime-registration rules , re-dering , and myriad other electoral rules – to establish ordinary workers at considerable disadvantage . the fact that financial institutions escaped a relatively unscathed from the great depression of 2008-2009 speaks mass about their policy power . they are posing continuing risks to economic stability , without compensating benefits for increased investment in productive activities . as stanford university ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require at least a set of higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny .
the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in areas israel occupied in 1967 . for israel , an occupying power , whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of times that of the people it denies basic human rights for liberty and autonomy , the photo opportunities given to meeting and greeting palestinian leaders has replaced peace . a stark look back at the march 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shaken hands on the white house lawn are revealing . negotiators have parlayed every possible solution not to have permanent-status issues concerning jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic relations . the leaders of the world ’s sunni superpowers , the united nations officials , elders , and tens of people of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and for bringing about peace .
this has led to the economic equivalent of a crisis of personal identity : who is china – them or the us – ? in personal relationships , denial tends to mask the imbalances , but only for so long . ultimately , deniers and imbalances yield to frictions , and to blame – holding a codependent partner responsible for one ’s problems – for one ’s own making . such , in turn , is the case with both the us and china . in other words , the us export miracle was sparked not by state-sponsored chinese firms , but by the offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west .
if doha fails , some say , life goes ahead . as lamy put it , almost 80 % of curry favor is ready ; we need only additional spices from major players – india , the european union , the us , brazil , and china . these can be provided in a politically palatable way , which also means that there is no less naïve . but , again , why still want to continue trying ? that is true , of course , but that does not make that view any less naïve .
given that 20 % of russia ’s gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its own government has made such a priority . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional . in turn , lukashenko has made good decisions about the economic reasons that his country needs , and can no longer depend solely on russia without paying a heavy political price . but the thaw in eu-belarus relations needs to be based on reciprocal , permanent steps . at the same time , the eu has awakened suddenly to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic drop in its natural capital . plant and animal species worldwide are vanishing at an unprecedented rate – 100 to 1,000 times the rate of natural extinction . conversely , the poor are among the first to suffer from deterioration in their natural-resource environments . in the developing world , however , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , while protecting a fragile environment is seldom a national priority . the planet ’s most endangered ecosystems are located in the developing world , enabling it to become dependent upon some of the world ’s neediest communities to preserve them .
africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy portfolio , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than sufficient to meet the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , it has become less expensive for renewable-energy sources , rendering them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , utility-scale photovoltaic solar energy prices in africa have fallen by as much as 50 % , from 2010 to 2014 , and continue to decline today . and south africa ’s renewable-energy independent energy-procurement program has seen a total decline in its bid prices and subordination rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a staple in europe , whether the story is one of an illegal malian immigrant scaling a paris building to rescue a toddler or the formation of a populist government in italy , which seeks to deport a half-million migrants . but plenty of countries – like australia , canada , and singapore – are doing just fine , free of agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries by issuing skills-matching visas . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote has been fueled partly by bogus and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe has driven down wages . since the vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has engaged with similar distortions , warning that once it has left the european union , the uk will face a dysfunctional state . and yet , despite continually covering up the issue – or , more often , precisely because of it – immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization .
the problem with gdp is not that it is a poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional concerns ) , but that it is incomplete . it does not include an increase in the quantity of goods and services delivered at a negative incredulity , or the non-substance of individual well-being or social progress more broadly . looking ahead , the same cost structure dynamics promise to produce big increases in a wide range of fields of well-being . most healthcare professionals soon have the digital aides to offer diagnoses ( particularly for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic ailments ) , perform non-invasive surgeries or found pertinent published research . that is not to suggest that we should scrap , or revise gdp ; but to see our limitations .
studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the poorest vote in the numbers well above the national average , while the highly educated middle-class are turning out in numbers well below it . whereas psephological studies in the united states have shown that the poor are not voting in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem has averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india . but many lament that the country ’s poor performance on the political class around the world in general offers fewer cause for celebration . what really changes in india ’s social composition between its politicians and bureaucrats since independence are really proof of a democracy at work . in india , it is the working poor , who are taking the time to line up in a heated sun , believing that their votes will make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers will do little to influence the outcome , have been staying at home .
first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy the two notable spokespersons for his candidacy . should we now be watching the french presidential campaign with admiration or alarm ? it is undeniably a great “ showcasing ” staged with all of the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including an astonishing conspiracy twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” ” ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou now must be taken seriously . first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy the two noteworthy spokesmen for his candidacy .
but that may be changing in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating assaults on america ’s rules-based trade system . japan recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade deals with the united states that might challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the most-favored nation ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges afforded to a single country must extend to all wto members ’ trade deals must extend to all wto members . gaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would seem to render moot trump ’s “ national security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas – a justification that enables him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs . here , japan once again acts voluntarily , ” under intense us pressure . here , japan is once again acting voluntarily , ” under intense american pressure .
not unlike holland in the late 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use of his trade union connections , along with his working-class rapport , to reach agreement on social pacts that aim to achieve sustained improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin american economic powerhouse . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its fast rising labor force demands an extremely high rate of job-creation . the idea is not that brazil should strive for implementation of the dutch socioeconomic model – countries are too different for that . emulating the dutch experience with job creation gives the surest way to alleviate poverty in brazil .
by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control laws and their defiance of america ’s gun lobby . in 2011 , when then-us representative barney martin asked why capture of wall street ’s student protesters “ thinking that simply was in a physical place does very much ” , an appropriate response would still have been : “ “ in fact , occupying public spaces ” could accomplish a great deal , depending on who the occupiers are , and how numerous they number they number . ” consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who assembled ” two times more twitter followers than a national rifle association almost overnight . nonetheless , assembly in the physical space fulfills the functions for a democracy in which online activism – however permanent or passionate – simply can not . hence , the civil-rights marchers in the us during the 1950s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning of our figures . ”
the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . true , there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than in forecasting future trends . so , when it comes to explaining to the dollar ’s decline over the last year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement .
to me , this view of things explains far better than the orthodox account , why , for all money-pumping central bank governors , commercial banks did not start lending again , and advanced-economy recessions got petered out . in short , recoveries can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . to be sure , some worry about a collapse in the household saving rate , but few were overly concerned . in one of his most recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays took the form of homes . just as lenders failed to force money on the pre-crisis public , so they can not now compel heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to seek productivity-enhancing loans when markets were flat or shrinking .
but there seem to be some basic rules of the political survival that had been ignored in australia in recent years , and to put them out can help both the alp and the rest who would have remembered them . the first rule is to have philosophy gone and stick . the exceptionally successful labor governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , did just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that was later joined with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its taken elements were obvious : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case , with lower-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social wage ” increases in health care and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and a liberal internationalist internationalist foreign policy . by contrast , the current alp ’s government has struggled until now to make a recreation of anything as compelling as ever .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants per year , the eu needs to mobilize the private sector – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria should never have become a crisis . that will require not just funding , but also the human , and the capacity to match the migrants and their sponsors . that is the fifth piece in the eu ’s comprehensive plan , to be sure . it was long on the making , easily displayed , and eminently manageable , european and international community .
it would be the same in an currently planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to be withdrawn , and additional investment in order to become gdp less carbon-intensive . furthermore , the distributional effects of the green transition are , unfortunately , at a significant disadvantage . with recent estimates placing the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp in 2040 , an correspondingly smaller proportion of output will become accessible for households ’ consumption . the corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , the gluttonous car , and oil-producing companies declines . the problem , then , does not originate with the use of the levers .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . since the start of the brexit negotiations , the us is on the eu side , its 27 member states , and the european parliament , have not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests nor lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . and , on the other hand , things could have turned out far worse , if at all . owing to the withdrawal agreement that was concluded this past october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit has been averted . our top priority was first and foremost to secure europe ’s citizens ’ rights , including through search for a solution to the peoples of northern ireland and northern ireland for whom negotiation aims for peace and stability , not just trade and economic growth .
and nothing has attenuated tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . such has been the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a major advocate of american expansionism : “ just war is , in the long run , far better for a man of souls than even the most prosperous of the peace era . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , won his nobel peace prize with an apology to “ only wars . ” history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by exorbitant power . the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to be the diplomatic charade that it has now occurred .
other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . at the same time , they supersede religionists within israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank appears to be about political power , not judaism . yet , today , as iran ’s leverage grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is only the last of saudi arabia ’s troubles . so fundamental are the changes facing the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , it has said little when us president donald trump recognizes jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ”
europeans are abuzz with mergers not only to take advantage of europe ’s wider economic space , but also to confront tough competition in world markets . in france , great strategic plays are being politicized in banks and fashions ; italy is seeing its major players position themselves on the european and global stage . no day passes without the major headlines of the large merger in europe ; germany is ablaze , like its mammoth corporations , performing slovakia . no one can say how deep the changes go ahead , or how quickly they shift europe into a fast-moving lane . in sum , the old continent is getting hot , too .
greece ’s debt crisis provided a stark warning that european policymakers must not let public debt pile up indefinitely . the eu was right to complain decisively to safeguard the euro ’s stability , by providing short-term assistance to greece , and establishing a european financial stabilization mechanism . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore markets ’ confidence , as well as to their own citizens . germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . recent studies show that once a government ’s ’s debt burdens reach a threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth .
in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as did marxist marxists and “ freemasons , ” as “ cosmopolitans ” or internationalists ” – those whose loyalty was suspect . but , ultimately , stalin did not come up with that idea , meaning that he did . it is precisely the kind of vocabulary that is breaking out of nativist movements that are hostile toward ethnic or religious minorities , or lashing out at financial or intellectual elites who supposedly perched in to undermine true sons and daughters of a nation . to victorian fascists , the us was often viewed as the symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . not regarded as part of native-born russians , jews were presupposed to belong to an international cabal , and hence to inherently treacherous .
but were ansar al-shariah ’s brigade really behind the american consulate attacks ? in fact , salafi jihadism is not an organization but an ideological trend underlying the underlying belief that armed tactics of all kinds are the most effective – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change . the nature of libya ’s post-revolution pro-democracy islamist forces is no means straightforward . it should be above the constitution , and not an article for the referendum . to be sure , “ in the end , ” they should not come near as a shariah .
in any case , israel now appears to have dropped the charade . he recently stated that his ultimate objective is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is limited in both its support for a two-state solution . the number of israelis , living in solely jewish settlements in the west bank , has tripled since the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization and israel in 1993 . their hope surely dwindled further when they saw bulldozers arrive while preparing the ground for new settlements – not an uncommon occurrence . in london early this month , netanyahu refused even three times to answer questions from heaping his support for a two-state solution .
the pro-europe case foundation was in part the promise of ever upward prosperity . the pain that this policy generates has been exposed in protests across the continent and across the bitter ramifications of many struggling families , young and middle-aged alike . at the moment , that promise is severely in question . structural change for economies that have experienced a steep drop in interest rates , when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc , now must be made fast , in crisis , and with no luxury of devaluation . europe ’s ’s ’s design flaw – an economic union motivated by policymaking but one expressed in economics – has become apparent .
the problem after all , after all , is not in east germany , but rather in the west . if west germany , in the face of reunification , rolled back all these unaffordable constraints to the free play of markets , the economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would have had more near-full employment , the drivers of increased productivity would have been far more aggressive . the only other way that germany could have been secured was for the government to pay lots of unemployment compensation in the heavy wage east germany . unification meant that everybody got not just the benefits of western german economic institutions – namely , property rights and hard money – but also virtually all disastrously negative institutions : unions , over-unemployment and over-job security , pervasive regulation . of course , german corporatism made no such solution possible : the trade unions wanted their wages protected .
amman – lately , israel ’s vice prime minister , mohamed mofaz mofaz , has offered a unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . mofaz ’s statements are symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply embedded , not only in the middle east , but in the united states as well . that notion is of a hegemonic iran attempting to dominate the region , through an array of shiite proxies . in fact , any return of the golan heights to syria would have resulted in the “ “ iranian foothold ” of israel ’s borders , and would thus be not only politically naïve but irrational . this iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza , and finally from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen .
the recent elections , which followed such a sweeping turn of policy direction , occurred in the 1980 ’s , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending and regulation , and fostered the federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . in the united states , president barack obama and democrats , controlling the house of representatives and ( filibuster-proof ) the senate , had the power to do virtually anything they had wanted in 2009 – and so did . obama and his congressional allies enacted a $ 800 billion stimulus bill that was loaded with programs geared toward core democratic constituencies such as environmentalists and public employees ; enacted a sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be decided by the supreme court earlier this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain corporations for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at levels exceeding world ii ; engaged in ; engaged in ; and regulatory agencies , centralized power , and executive branches of government , regulatory agencies ; and regulatory agencies ( i suspect ) . while in 1988 , 1992 , and the 2000 election was also rather consequential , the policy shifts were not nearly as big today as they were in 1980 and 2008 , respectively . stanford , successful political candidates attempted to present the drafts that they ran .
all sides agree that the stability of the international economy rests on a system of global rules . what is disputed is the nature of such rules . developing countries complain about restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural goods , labor services ) , and the fear that new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . developing countries complain about the restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , agricultural goods , labor services ) , and the fear that the new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . they see a trading system that privileges entrepreneurship over labor , environmental , and consumer security .
besides , geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from demands for favors from the corporate and other interest groups . but , having fought for freedom out of apartheid south africa , geingob argues , namibia needs to defend the freedoms it championed . not all of namibia ’s core resources are finite . most important , unlike most resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way . some – like fisheries – recognizes how transparency protects it from demands for favors from the corporate and other interest groups .
gordon ’s argument is his shortened time horizons of ir # 3 ( depending on his own ) . · “ both of the first two revolutions required roughly 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economy . " consider the following four phrases in his paper : · “ ir # 2 's inventions were so important … that they took the full $ 100 year to have their primary effect . " consider the following four revolutions in question : · “ ir # 2 's inventions were so important … that they took fully 100 years to percolate through the economy . "
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to inflows that will inevitably drag their exchange rates and threaten export-led growth . the first possibility is to do nothing , and let the currency appreciate . that may be the right response if inflows and upward pressure on exchange rates are driven by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . but , in many cases , inflows are driven by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance that may be driving an overvalued currency , crowding out a unconventional export sector or import-competing industries , loss of competitiveness , and eventually running large current-account deficits and rendering external growth tighter growth tighter . this is exacerbated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is intervening aggressively to minimize any renminbi appreciation .
furthermore , the fall of joblessness largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from what remained in the labor force . if the labor-force participation rate were 66 % , as it did in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it did in december 2013 , the us unemployment rate would be just over 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . as long as the stock of debt remains excessive , consumers will dismiss the cut in interest expenditure as nothing more than the fed ’s temporary subsidy . plunging debt service is largely an outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . yes , there has been some progress along the road to recovery .
the countries facing fiercest budget battles are also , instead , the united kingdom and america , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is up for grabs . he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the cyclically-adjusted deficit to 1.5 % of gdp annually , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . but , while he likes to raise her voice , he is behaving with caution : today , german fiscal adjustment is , in reality , quite gradual . in office , he has assigned budget forecasting to a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby rending any opportunity for a sleight-of-hand .
other great and autonomous countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subjected over decades to limitations on their acquisition of specific arms and military equipment . similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees to claim the right of a return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and just about . indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one of the fundamental components of egypt ’s peace with israel . are they to return to homes and farms that no longer existed ? what sense would it move to return millions of palestinians to a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where the majority belongs to another ethnic group ?
the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign is appealing for voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi , ’s legacy – a legacy that serves as the prime example of damaging right-wing populism – can do to the country . among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a way as preventing the left from ever gaining total power once more , blocking any criminal accusations that they could be leveled against him . in austria , voters will elect between a pro- and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . renzi ’s proposed reforms , among other things , would modernize the political system by disembodied the senate ( the parliament ’s upper house ) . a hofer victory might add wind to le pen ’s sails .
still , it is important to remember that there is a positive aspect to the party ’s self-confidence . as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some homegrown protesters , rather than treat every form of collective action as subversive , can be perceived as reflecting a rising sense of insecurity . conversely , some of china ’s most worrying moves may be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider last month ’s gadfly critic liu xiaobao , who was sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of subversion ” to launch an online petition drive championing civil liberties . would a truly self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish about his activism ?
anti-dumping laws aim to ensure fair trade by preventing the sale of goods below cost . with globalization , it would be natural to expand such principles into the international arena , making it meaningless to the extent that a producer is domestic or foreign when judging whether it is involved in unfair trading practices . but debates over competition and fair trade once again reveal the intellectual poverty and the inequity of trade negotiations . in developed countries , meanwhile , concern over such behavior has long been raised over the past 15 years – the so-called `` predation '' -- and well-defined norms have developed . but it makes a distinction whether a good is produced domestically or internationally .
with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating the majority of political agendas , it will be all too easy for a commitment to wane . if that is to be avoided , continued leadership from the top – above all from obama ’s and russian president dmitri medvedev – will become indispensable . arms control and disarmament are the grinding , unglamorous business that generates few quick returns . but the initiation of treaty ratification is going nowhere fast in the american senate , and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty into force ; starting negotiations on a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; reinforcing the non-proliferation regime with effective adjudication measures to adjudicate and discourage treaty violations ; reaching certain form of international governance of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and beginning , above all , beginning rounds of new disarmament , involving not just eight superpowers , but also serious nuclear-armed talks . but numerous significant contributions are involved , made by less powerful states and leaders , as well as by civil-society organizations , can compel them . arms control and disarmament are the grinding , unglamorous business that generates few quick returns .
i had just toured these cells : killing yourself in them is literally impossible . this “ apparent suicide ” ” ” ” ” ” seemed instantly suspect . after all , their interiors resemble those inside the frictionless plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold down ; there is no bedding one can use to strangle oneself . at the end , the us military had already investigated the military . “ that was an investigation , the ” he responded ; it was not .
moreover , because more must be done to enhance the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , unodc is working with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . decisive political action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of appropriate laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries . in south africa , for example , unodc established three centers ( in mazowiecki , east cape , and north cape ) to offer legal attorney and health-care services to women , and to work with men to help crack the cycle of domestic violence . but gathering intelligence is just one step toward closing loopholes in criminal laws and overcoming the gaps in prevention policies . this includes exploring male-on-female violence causes and assessing associated risk factors , such as rates of drug and alcohol use .
beyond reversing history itself is the reality that emerging-market and developing economies now account for roughly two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just one-third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely a domestic affair . these findings are not an invitation to the embrace indiscriminate risk taking . moreover , there is mounting evidence that creditor rights and coercive powers in external sovereign-debt markets have been made public by america ’s recent court judgements . the key driver of larger ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon of such sovereign bonds . adding to the attractiveness of an emerging-market sovereign securities portfolio , its returns are not perfectly correlated with capital returns .
in countries ( sweden , for example ) , where recourse loans permit seizure of household income to enforce payment of mortgage obligations , private consumption can plummet as debt payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowds out discretionary spending . either way , the outcome would be the same for another one : recession and economic stagnation . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market train wrecked . but higher home prices trigger a bust , the more it cuts – and the larger the collateral economic and financial damage that comes – when a credit bubble deflates . in countries where non-recourse loans enable borrowers to walk away from home mortgages when their value outstrips that of home , a housing-bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises .
in this view , america , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . yet the arab world is split over how to cope with a sudden rise in iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned of america ’s dangers in iraq ’s potential breakdown , and are now finding itself in an unequal face-off with iran . some in the kingdom have argued that saudi arabia must confront iran , stand up for sunni arab interests , and become a hands-on regional power . other saudis believe that confrontation will lead only to broader wars and urge dialogue and accommodation .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to an end to the trade war remains far from clear . after all , both leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks finally failed , not least because trump mistook china , ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
but risk takers have every incentive to try their own happiness again , knowing that when confronted with an equal choice , they will be bailed out . even as the authorities insist that the next time will be different , everyone knows that they will make the same choice when confronted with an equal choice once again . a different , democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are economically or politically vital , such as finance or the real-estate sector , allowing them to privatize gains and socializing losses . when asked to choose between the risks of having known posterity as the central banker who was allowing the system to collapse , and with the intangible future benefit of teaching risk takers , it does not take genius to predict a central banker ’s choice . so , knowing that next time wo n’t be different , the authorities try their best to prevent another time .
when the chief object of human consumption was food , this was not an issue , because what mattered was land and water . among the large continental countries , including india and brazil , only china had a small coastline segment but an enormous interior land . while such disparities may , of course , have other causes as well , geography does seem to explain a lot . but in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what might matter increasingly are transport costs , implying that geography may generate deep regional inequalities . first , it explains why china ’s coastal regions were developed earlier and quicker after the country launched its market reforms and opened up to the world .
as a result , careful calculations about the impact of mortgage cuts on aggregate demand ( which the us implemented and which johnson and soros have not ) fail to hold up their claims : the extra spending per dollar of relief was probably less than a dime on a government-source expended dollar . the idea that some version of the soros plan would have spurred growth is speculative at best . fifth , in the policy environment that prevailed in 2009 , it would have been difficult or not to get more money for the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) . the bulk of the benefit from mortgage reductions to consumers would have been limited only over time . that leaves aside an additional lesson , gained from the experience ; that institutions with large quantities of public capital tend to be very passive about increasing borrowing .
in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an annual inflation target of roughly 2 % , in order to provide a price-stability tax “ anchor of resources . ” because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not readily revised ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict harm on the economy . keynes ’s dictum became that of monetary policy ( one of the few in need of survival ) . by conventional wisdom , governments should aim for a stable price , with modest bias toward inflation in order to stimulate “ the animal spirits ” of businessmen and shoppers . rising prices depress the value of saving and pensions , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , stimulating hoarding , and increasing the real debt burden .
margaret thatcher was always an opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . today , the british seem an insuper-able obstacle to attainment by the others of a more integrated eu . british hostility to that goal has become increasingly fierce , as john major lost his tory majority in parliament and fell under the power of anti-european europeans within his own party . in law , the british may be able to block unwelcome developments within the eu , because the union was based on treaty ; as a result , the british had an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power because it demanded , and got , the right to opt out of participating in emu .
princeton – democracy everywhere , unlike the united states , is facing severe challenges . europeans are watching their malaise over a democratic deficit within the european union . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to overthrow established party machines . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis of its own . and , in the united kingdom , a vision of regaining national sovereignty is fueling the brexit campaign .
given uncertainty over the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-employment debt restructuring would be overkill . indeed , given uncertainty over the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and an full-throated debt restructuring would be overkill . at the same time , however , there is no positively superior alternative . ukraine would be an ideal candidate to repeat itself . persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so given recent court rulings in the united states that reinforce the hand of holdout investors .
the situation in yemen is similarly grim . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut off for a bare minimum , a decision that affects the lives of millions of people already enduring scorching temperatures . racked out by sectarian violence and a civil war , countries have no functioning government to manage their water resources . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to a minimum , a decision that affects the lives of millions of people already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukban , the unhcr refugee camp on jordan ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents each get barely five liters a day for cooking , drinking , and washing .
first , jgbs ’s quantity has ballooned to japanese household assets . japanese households hold up about ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will be exceeded in roughly 3-5 years by the value of jgbs . and , reflecting japanese society ’s aging population , the household savings rate itself will decline dramatically , making it more difficult for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits . at that point , government debt will no longer be squeezed by taxpayer ’ assets . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends are set to fuel demand for fiscal expenditure as retirement and health-care costs rise .
one key decision facing serbia and its new institutions is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague . these are great steps forward , and they show that , despite brainwash and complicity of many serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , it is a chance for democracy and an open society to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . much has been happening lately in yugoslavia , much of that surprising . after some procrastination and initially unsuccessful efforts , milosevic has been sacked without bloodshed , though not without danger . a peaceful vote in montenegro in the last weekend may presage a conflict and a difficult resolution of independence , but the chances are strongly keen that the warring parties will settle such matters by speaking rather than fighting .
as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , intensifies , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians , and vice versa , if necessary . this does not mean that ecb president should fight whenever possible . on the contrary , it should build support for the ecb ’s independence . a sound central banker needs to be able to say no to politicians . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset – indeed , its dispensible .
in principle , greece might have counted on to massive amounts of regional development aid from the european union ’s budget , underutilized , owing to a lack of local co-financing . it took until last summer to recognize , and even then only to the modest degree , that such aid could be used to support economic recovery . europe ’s last mistake was a degree of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not put forward macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its fundamental objectives .
brussels – the aftermath of europe ’s debt crisis is all too present throughout much of the european union , as distressed economies try to stabilize and grow simultaneously . notwithstanding the important decisions that have been made over the past few years , the reality is that we must do more to address the challenges facing europe today . a joint fiscal backstop has been put in place throughout the eu . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand by europe . reform and consolidation measures are taking place throughout the eu .
yet the financial industry has , for previous eras , proven that it can operate as a public good by providing a trustworthy , efficient service . faced with the economic challenge , client-service and transaction-management systems will receive more inputs from customers more often , in order to ensure that product design is shaped interred . the current strategy in the finance industry drives excessive competition by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customers for short-term gain . yet the rise of interactive social networking has made globally bottom-up financial innovation . millions of bank customers using cellphones can deliver instant feedback on which products and services they like or dislike of all workers .
today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only the product of a revolt against the empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . the way forward lies in democratic forms of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority over the purposes of statehood while respecting local and regional cultures . this sentiment is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . so unraveling a multi-national nation state turns out to be a spurious route . there is widespread revulsion for the idea that , by concentrating power in the hands of modern states , many peoples ’ heads in a global market guided by the imperatives of efficiency and cheapness imperatives , heedless of damaging non-economic activities .
indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington was seen by many – particularly many chinese – as pass the torch on . the pessimists have long been saying that this is something to their liking . still , one is right to wonder whether the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century , and if it does , whether it can survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunity . optimists , pointing out gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that america has never had it so good . if there is some level of continuity worth noting , there is the regular cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s bite has always been half-full and half-full .
but , even as those uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a kind of zero-sum transfer of emotion that is impossible to ignore . in the past , journeyed to london from paris , one could easily sense the difference between the two cities . london was bursting to its dynamism and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . today , confidence has sucked out of britain through social and political upheaval , terrorism , and insecurity about the country ’s future . paris , while undeniably more beautiful , was in danger of being a new rome , a prisoner of its past glory , at best a place to visit , but not a place to be .
such speculative investments may strengthen the trend further , pushing futures prices further away from market-based equilibrium , especially if many investors follow suit or those who invest ample funds to influence the market . in fact , empirical evidence yields no clear answer regarding which hypothesis is correct . at the market , they have become key actors , holding around 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts . index funds are an example of just such strong investors as they are . besides investing large amounts of money , they are holding futures contracts for a protracted period , which might force them to react to changes in market fundamentals .
president george w. bush is endangering the united states and the safety of the world while undermining american values . for opposing him , i have been demonized by bush 's campaign . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of un preemptive action -- and its invasion of iraq -- shall spell down , leaving the world to live up to the aftermath . but these are not unlike hard times . president george w. bush ran into a platform promising a `` humble ” foreign policy .
the balkan wars ravaged the 1990s not only millions of people , but also social institutions that gave shape to their lives . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and succession wars that followed the annihilated large sections of serbia ’s traditional educational and skills-training schemes , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , macedonia , and kosovo . since then , stability and hope have begun to return to a war-torn region and widespread desperation to address social displacement . the balkan stability pact of 1999 , together with massive international aid , helped to rebuild local education , while developing innovative vocational and training systems to boost long-run employment . the results of many projects in these countries are heartening , with the current focus on training key groups such as entrepreneurs , school teachers , and youth and unemployed .
whether iran ’s international interlocutors negotiate on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , rather than of ignorance . there can be no yardstick from middle eastern agony without the participation , commitment , and determination of all parties . there is an element in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can awaken only someone to sleep someone who is sleeping , not someone who chooses to sleep . ” thus , two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s sunni people , who have made it clear that they understand the challenges facing them , and another by his new president , who has assembled a top team available to commit an enormously difficult program . in the middle east , filled with uncertainty , an more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally vital state , not a destabilizing shi’a movement , whose aspirations go beyond what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies , and stock markets at free-fall , it may seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and put environmental investment back on hold . yet this would be a devastating mistake of immediate action , just as inter-generational , proportions are . concern about the environment has been viewed in the past as a luxury ; nowadays , it is a necessity , an mindset grasped by some , but not by all , economic architects yet . a high slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion national stimulus package includes a green boost to renewable energy , a weatherizing billions of homes and upgrading a country ’s inefficient electricity grid . far from burdening an already over-stressed , de-stressed global economy , environmental investment is precisely what is needed to get people back to work , capture our order books flowing , and help scouting economies back to their health .
that is one reason why sudden austerity can not be a morale builder . for morale , we need a social compact that finds an purpose for all , a way of displaying oneself to become an integral of society by becoming a worker of some sort . we might perhaps all start from having a happy job of working fewer hours if the slump reflected gradual social progress . but we are not happy with an unemployment rate that results from a precipitous fiscal crisis . and for that , we need fiscal stimulus , ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures on the same basis .
at the heart of any effort to resolve the debt crisis needs to be an understanding that just how today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth influence over what needs to be done . that federal law – enacted in june 2016 – also established an oversight board with america ’s commonwealth ’s fiscal decision-making authority . such decisions will determine which policies are amenable to stimulating puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much to bail out its creditors . but many crucial decisions so far have been taken , such as how much overall debt relief will be provided , with “ haircut ” being distributed among holders of various kinds of bonds . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when the board filed for petition in a federal court .
the european union is even more instructive , owing to the centuries of war culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired rather than discouraged , european economic , political , and security integration . with goodwill on all sides , genuine advantages may materialize from building this informal grouping , as it is gateway to the vast markets of southeast and northeast asia . the european union is even more instructive , owing to the centuries of war culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired rather than deterred , european economic , political , and security integration . with historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc , which still lacks an inter-governmental organization covering asean . ceagpol , ceagpol could even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean – the “ association of northeast asian nations . ”
even in europe and the united states , higher-level job officials typically earn far less than people with comparable skills and responsibilities in the private-sector economy . in every state , many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely honorable , but low-paying attracts into the government service of some rotten apples who are ready to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . even in europe and the united states , higher-level job officials typically earn far less than people with comparable skills and responsibilities in the private-sector economy . among other things , we suggested that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive a higher wage than comparable workers receive in the private sector . many years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article that proposed ways to reduce malfeasance among government employees .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and the annexation of crimea have undermined global security , dominating headlines . nonetheless , the current rules-based international system , long in its making , remains most severely threatened by syria ’s civil war . at last month ’s third anniversary , on the eruption of the protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people worldwide mobilized in street vigils and online as part of the “ course of syria ’s ” campaign . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global human-rights framework and humanitarian law is on trial as well . now those risks are at risk of being overshadow the crisis in ukraine , with a confrontation at the united nations security council threatening to subordinate syria to the pecking order of international problems .
to be sure , there is the additional feature that many higher educational institutions have an endowment that they can draw from which to use to balance inequities . it will take a time to build such endowments , in europe and elsewhere . even so , a principle is surely right : universities must be established free . there is , to be sure , the additional feature that many institutions of higher education have an endowment that they can use to balance inequities . public and private contributions are pooled in a variety of ways .
together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have sought to do just that , developing the scorecard spanning 150 years . using the classical economic valuations of everything from lost lives , poor health , and illiteracy to wetlands destruction and increased hurricane damage from global warming , we economists have shown just what amounts to every problem cost . yet , rather than picking the facts and narratives to fit some of the grand narrative of decline or progress , we should be trying to square a comparison across every field of human existence to see if the world really is doing better or worse . to estimate a great deal of the problem is to compare the level of total resources at which we can fix it . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all have responded to the same question : what used to be the relative costs of this problem over every year since 1900 , all the path taken by the year of 2013 , with predictions taking place in 2050 .
clearly , there is a need to increase investment in food production over the medium and long run . today , however , there is a policy prescription accessible to leaders that could help remove supply-side bottlenecks : more trade . trade is the transmission belt , through which supply adjusts to demand . it enables the jump to travel from lands of so many tiny people . this proposal may riggle some down , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible .
but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated . instead , the swamp has been growing broader and deeper . trump assumed office promising to lift the swamp ” in washington , dc , earlier this month . that avoids the needed reforms , and would leave the country with mountains of debt ; the consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – taking decades to undo . with the republicans ’ proposed tax reform , this threatens to engulf america ’s economy .
it is common for people to update their views about the world with what they have last seen ; if what they are only recent seeing is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . in a strong economy , finance looks stronger , and existing regulation will appear effective . yet finance may fail in a number of ways ; lehman ’s collapse is only one . the fed ’s 2008 2008 transcripts acknowledge that its leaders saw such a world . in a strong economy , finance looks stronger , and existing regulation emerge as effective .
even if he stops ranting on twitter or speaking in convoluted and incoherent sentences , at best he would be perceived as acting “ on remission . ” indeed , modern psychiatrists would argue that they had taken to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment ’s experiment , now making diagnoses and cautiously . at best , they would have been declared over in remission . yet , with the drug-tic label already affixed to their writings , whatever they were supposed to be a symptom of their own insanity . rosenhan ’s experiment indicates that questioning trump ’s mental health might never go away , whatever the steps he takes to change his detractors ’ minds .
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges refugees must confront , while avoiding resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental-health care fills the list . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve the quality and affordability of health-care around the world , by developing faster methods for diagnosing diseases and delivering medical services . it is a challenge that demands tighter attention not only from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers that can make indispensable contributions to global public health . those contributions are highly responsive to refugees today .
over the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected multiple barriers to exploitation of knowledge , often giving rise to the gap between socioeconomic returns to innovation and private returns to widen . the widespread acceptance of today ’s strict ip protections has also become historically unprecedented . yet , even among the early industrializers , ip protection came in plain sight , and frequently was intentionally eschewed to allow for faster industrialization and growth . the current ip regime is unsustainable in the long run . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped that regime make the latter point clearly reflected their opposition to clauses recognizing the intellectual property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity .
throughout this period , the bundesbank has sold dollars to curb the us dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed has refrained from intervening at every ( figure 1b ) . despite the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : while the ecb repeatedly tried to break the dollar ’s appreciation against the dollar in 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange interventions , the fed intervened only once . during this era , the us dollar strongly appreciated against major currencies , and was overvalued by virtually every measure by 1985 . this reaffirmed america ’s interest in maintaining the strong dollar . so long as these interests diverged , we should expect little monetary-policy coordination between the two central banks .
a key argument in favor of such a change is that bringing joint attendance at the eu would raise europe ’s weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis the u.s. . after all , a key reason for the front line of european integration was precisely to give a stronger voice to europe in the international arena . in the coming g8 meetings ( the annual world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members -- germany , france , italy , the united kingdom -- would participate individually and as members of the european union , whose president attends to represent the eu as a whole . but should n't the eu now have only a single representative ? regardless of whether such meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme , symbolic value : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policy .
the idea behind a slippery slope is that , if you do x , which is readily acceptable , you end up doing y , which is not . true , two types of slippery slope – logical and sociological – exist . on a logical slippery slope , you slide toward the end and embrace a form of morally unacceptable , because there is no way to distinguish it from an acceptable practice . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one kind of practice into another – even if the other two are conceptually different – just because the very existence of one creates a social-media receptive to another . true , therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning .
premature , devaluation in a nearby country reveals the extent to which the economy is suffering losses of international confidence . suddenly , foreign creditors curtail short-term credit lines . in doing so , the central bank is trying to keep exchange rates in place , but is eventually forced to let the currency float . the result is a currency collapse , followed by a wave of bankruptcies . before long , devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerable an economy is to a loss of international confidence .
the world might not have supported the us in its own unilateral attempts to become the world ’s policeman , mainly because they may well have brought even more instability there . nevertheless , it is important to realize why america is undertaking them , and responding to the fundamental problem of today ’s international order . if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the standing of its states among the countries of the existing permanent states , those actions were all the more likely to generate the opposite effect . similarly , rearguard efforts to show that those who opposed war in iraq were right , and american and britons were wrong , together with demands for “ `` proof '' that iraqis possessed weapons of mass destruction , are unconstructive , and have only inciting mutual irritation . if the us sought to preserve the un security council , as well as the status of the current permanent members , it was a naïve policy doomed to failure .
some 8,000 refugees a day – the modern-day day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , partly owing to tough conditions back home , and partly due to germany ’s willingness to take up them in the process . the challenge of caring for , employing , and integrating such numbers will soon run up against the boundaries of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . what is obvious is that public policy can not really succeed if it is focused on the consequences , rather than the causes , of the refugee crisis . simply put , some 8,000 refugees annually – the advanced day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , partly owing to tough conditions back home , and partly because of germany ’s willingness to take them in . unfortunately , that seems likely to come about only with the blessing of russia and iran , both seem more inclined to increase their support for syrian president bashar al-assad than to work to remove them .
more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , significant us military maneuver – a juniper cobra exercise there – was being conducted to test israel ’s integration into america ’s missile-defense defenses . both sides appear eager to expand the scope of their partnerships with the goal of achieving high levels of interoperability . american sources described the drill as “ the most complete nuclear-missile-defense system , ” which the us ’ve ever carried out anywhere in the world . both sides seem eager to expand the scope of their partnerships with the objective of achieving high levels of interoperability . israel has also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , contributing to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean .
launching a military rescue operation would be enormously risky , at best . despite talk of a government negotiating an agreement with the associated captors , that option , too , would be fraught with danger . girls are believed to have been split along separate groups , so that any attempt to rescue one group would imperil others . in fact , it is difficult to see how girls could return safely . even if all girls are finally coming home , nothing will ever become the same again for them or for their families .
excessive sanctions lead to the negative-sum games , in which a borrower can not recover , and lenders do not reap the benefits of the larger repayment capacity that recovery would entail . the country played by the “ rules ” of financial markets and succeeded in clearing rapid restructuring ; but the deal was a bad one , and helped the economy recovers . three years later , greece is in desperate need of a new kind of restructuring . distressed borrowers need a fresh start ; they need help . the absence of a rule of law for debt restructuring delays fresh start and can lead to chaos .
anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive and in short supply . we would expect to see large numbers of illnesses among both staff and patients in hospitals in which victims are treated , and soon someone ( perhaps unill ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would be for wealthy nations to devote resources to developing countries primarily for surveillance purposes . or perhaps they would be marketed on the black market to enrich corrupt governments . history suggests that if these drugs were made available to poor countries for ring prophylaxis , they would often be administered self-improperly by – such as in suboptimal doses – in ways that foster viral resistance , it would only intensify a pandemic .
the best solution is to make western labor markets more flexible by opening a system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling the labor-market regulation and reforming the welfare state . if migrants gain welfare benefits in addition to wages , more of them would be tempted to be lured into impending than necessary , with marginal migrants creating welfare losses equal to such benefits . but , even with such measures , the social benefits may artificially augment the incentive to relocate . given that migrants gain welfare benefits in addition to wages , more of them would be enticed into impending than desired , with marginal migrants creating welfare losses to the eu equilibrating benefits . if workfare replaces welfare , wages would become more flexible , enabling eu labor markets to absorb immigrants in a more efficient way .
palestinian authority headed by the west bank is scared that a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn violent . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of continuing opposition to israeli rule . former palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . if so , israel might use it as a pretext to crush palestinians and their newly built institutions . yet , with their governments unable to do anything about the spread of israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , western bank palestinians are extremely frustrated .
the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and declining import demand in the west , makes reform even more urgent . wages continue to rise , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies , but the growth model has yet to be equipped to encourage competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation . li must ensure that china , which still boasts significant growth potential , will not sink into lethargy , plunging itself into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and declining import demand in the west , makes reform even more urgent . at the same time , li must make sure that china , which still boasts significant growth potential , is not falling into lethargy , and falling behind in the so-called “ middle-income trap . ”
yet , after nine years of entrenched conservative rule , moon will not be able simply to swoop in and carry his agenda . to succeed , moon will need to revisit the carefully the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the clearest pitfalls that may hold . when it comes to public-sector employment creation , for example , the key problem that must be thought is the long-term financial burden that such large-scale hiring might generate . moreover , he will need broader public backing , not less . indeed , with his democratic party holding just 40 % of the parliament ’s 299 seats , it will need to win the support of the centrist parties , as well as of even the conservative opposition .
it is difficult for non-profits to rival for manufacturing values embodied in beyoncé ’s pepsi commercial or taylor swift ’s diet coke commercial . the causes of obesity are complicated and the science of our understanding of human behavior is embryonic ; but it is not the hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . according to the centers for disease control and prevention ( odi ) , about 18 % of all children under the age of five are not just overweight but obese . and , for any celebrity troughs who donates time to fight obesity , dozens accept big payoffs to swiss hawk products , such as ultra-sugary drinks , that are untrue of our generation ’s tobacco . commercial tv programs targeting babies are replete with ads for processed foods of the questionable value to human health .
europe , where shared sovereignty was embraced , struggles to address its own challenges , never mind becoming a global player . yet america today is on the back foot , economically and militarily . new powers like china and india are rising , rather than rising , mixing assertiveness , with its emphasis on their continued “ development ” status . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s peoples and peoples have become more intertwined than ever , as ideas , information , finance , migrants , and trouble flow ever more seamlessly across borders . so no one is in charge , but in the past .
according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow more rapidly over the next four years , with the uk then recovering leading the way . no doubt , recovery in the united kingdom has started more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . and per capita gdp certainly needs to be preferable to aggregate gdp . last year , its rate of growth was the highest in the g-7 . but there is also no question that the uk ’s recovery chose pace after 2012 .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . back in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is an issue that lies solely between the frenchman & his god . ” offering assurances to a party of connecticut baptists who feared for their religious liberty , he pointed out that the first amendment of the establishment clause and the loose implementation clause built “ a wall of separation ” between the church & state .
i have talked personally with more than 50 foreign leaders , and we are all agreeing that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the devastation in west africa and stop ebola ’s spread . yet , by overcoming the differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and to conquer ebola , we are reinforcing the support of a global order grounded in collective solutions to shared problems . we are making progress on both issues , but much work remains to be done . bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and appeals to the relationships that have been built and sustained over decades , as have alliances with new partners .
if a foreign subsidiary , an parent company brings after-tax profits back to americans in order to invest or redistribute relative to its shareholders , america ’s current corporate tax rate must pay , say , 35 % on its initial pre-tax irish earnings with a credit to the 12 % that it has already paid . because of that 23 % penalty for repatriation , american companies generally choose not to repatriate profits from their foreign subsidiaries . consider the example of a us corporate company subsidiary that earns its profits in ireland . that subsidiary pay a irish corporate tax at ireland , low by 12 % . it frets over after-tax profits in iran , us financial securities , or operating firms anywhere in the world – except in america .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument of mobilizing massive stores of capital for investment in infrastructure , research , and development – and other essential fields . but the shift to a carbon-neutral economy also provides far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy in place , europe can spur its own technological innovations , introduce carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost manufacturing in china and elsewhere . the problem does not observe national boundaries , and thus demands collective global action . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” ” europe can secure increased economic independence from other eu powers and start establishing the eu as a global currency .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british imperial era . partly in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced japanese-style capitalism , which has produced a spectacular form of economic progress . and , like its economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . india today sees that the wider world , particularly the west , in terms of growing respect , for not just the country ’s performance , but also its essence – its youthful country , and that is also an ancient civilization . fifty years ago , as part of an attempt to read about western india , you will mostly find books about spirituality .
merkel knows that if an american sacrifices its place at the top of the international order on domestic political grounds , it will not be replaced by a new lead power or a new world order . rather , she has been calling for a stronger europe , marked by chaos . a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not so questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she was calling on a stronger europe as a whole . and as the world becomes less stable , us europeans will have little choice but to come together to defend their own interests .
there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , seem to think that some degree of democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party simply loses control of the country . this is one reason why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a democratic transition has become inescapable : the party simply loses control of the country . the point is that questions like , “ are we producing too much inequality ? ” is n’t only a mechanism to help prevent strategic errors . the upshot is that whenever a problem gets out of hand , a turnaround has come too late , and is dramatic .
indeed , there are a number of exciting practical moves in this direction , though not all pursue the original regional course set by their founders . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly shown both the willingness and the capacity to create a fighting force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly , but perhaps greater still in the long run , ecowas is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of a single currency now a stated objective . across south africa , the southern african development community , after a shaky start , is pushing ahead with common projects of which the transport infrastructure , the blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme . at the same time , east african countries are pushing for integration projects ahead and appears to have learned from past failures in the region , which has been the result of hastily constructed , improper , and overly ambitious structures .
with private-sector demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – the ceiling that germany is now hitting . unless a future government is bold enough to break the pact to leave , its only alternative will be tax increases that would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand , which has kept unemployment high . likewise , the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into insolvency than in promoting higher employment . so where is this kind of demand-driven growth ?
new york – in his noteworthy apology to northern ireland ’s catholics ( most of which country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests have been tempted to commit some sexual acts with children . it was because of “ new and serious challenges ” to the faith arising from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . as we know at the time , the abuse of children by roman catholics did not just occur in ireland , but in many other countries too , something the pope had preferred not to dwell on them . and ireland is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have undermine religious values . fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely affecting people with traditional adherence to catholic teaching and shared values .
egypt ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect of the arab peninsula . historically , it deployed just 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty permits in canada and the us military never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to allow units for the temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore a full measure of sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s predecessor , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently observed . last august , israelis allowed an additional g7 battalions and g-20 tank in poland c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought the full number of additional troops , and did not even bother to transport tanks across the suez canal .
its homeland page shows a smiling young chunks based in chile , and the company pushes to enlist palestinian women – not for ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . “ thirty percentage points of women in many of the middle east ’s countries have university degrees , ” ” zaleski explains , but they are often unable to get jobs commensurate with their training for cultural purposes . the founders do not , after all , exclude them from ultimately expanding in order to address that imperative . “ thirty percentage points of women in many countries in the middle east have university degrees , ” zaleski explains , but often they are not able to get jobs commensurate with their training for cultural purposes . with powertofly ’s technological capacity to transcend cultural barriers , a woman may contribute at the top of an american company – even though local laws prohibit her from riding a car .
the first reason for hope is that statesmanship is returning to europe , even though in homeopathic doses . yet , in italy , prime minister mario monti , the netherlands , is already making a big difference . it is far too early to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . so here are ten good reasons for believing in europe – ten rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts , and worried investors alike – that it is very premature to bury the european and eu altogether . of course , no one was elected monti , and his position is fragile and already contested , but there is a positive near-consensus that allowed him to launch long-overdue structural reforms .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , protracted joblessness periods for parents are having a profound , lingering negative impact on their children . at the same time , children whose families can not provide a fair start in life deserve help . many of these choices have turned out badly , largely because information technology ( computers and how they are used ) has eliminated many middle-class jobs . expanded globalization of trade , too , has not helped in this regard . but america did not provide it , a point recently made by jeb bush , a lead contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination .
but what governments need now is a better understanding of the bottlenecks in investment : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technology . all too often , they are willing to spend money promoting private-sector projects that fail to provide a positive return to a broader economy . and they must commit to rigorous cost-benefit analyses in order to ensure that any interventions translates into private investment that promotes productivity growth . it is here – at the level of execution – that governments often perform poorly . in most european countries , action to spur private investment in local service industries and transportation – both large sectors must be considered as well .
at the same time , animals consume more food than they produce them . thus , cows releases large volumes of heat-trapping methane . this trend has grave implications for agriculture ’s ecological footprint . here is where the link between food and climate change begins : as people climb out of poverty – as so many are – they demand more meat and dairy . this trend has grave implications for agriculture ’s ecological footprint . animals consume more food than they produce them .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more broad-based mandate . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have been working for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities as i have overseen the economic revitalization of my own , post-conflict state . the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansionary mandate . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : to lift people out of poverty , and foster sustainable development . for example , they must balance the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , expand access to education , or address persistent corruption .
berlin – europe ’s established left is grappling with the threat of extinction . on less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic casualties in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . yet one of the most important reasons is as grim as it is simple : europe ’s voters increasingly oppose immigration and have no confidence in the left to curb it . many factors underlie the fall of the left , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . on a continent long defined by democratic competition between center-right and center-left parties , a collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , not particular party interests .
finally , it would increase the relative vulnerabilities of america ’s main strategic rival , china , which is becoming increasingly reliant on middle eastern energy supplies . this scenario would grant the american three tremendous advantages . it would enhance american economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower cost involved in carrying out shale gas . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . arguably , america is already expected to become energy self-sufficient in 2020 , becoming an oil exporter by 2030 .
at the same time , traditional parties could learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than only through media filters and pollsters . likewise , traditional parties could learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than just through media filters and pollsters . in most western european countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide over issues of income and other indicators among some of the affluent towns that benefit from globalization – and that of the rest of the country . yet not as long as french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact tax cuts based on where one lives . yet , not as long as french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact tax cuts based on where one lives .
that ’s ’s a substantial number of lives , but now one must ask how much of each life ’s € 1 billion ( $ 45 billion ) could save . let ’s suppose , for example , that a visit or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that time , meaning that an extra hour spent in notre dame or recalling one ’s visit , is as good as extending one ’s life by another by one hour . whatever the gilets jaunes may advocate , it is evident that we could save more lives and alleviate greater economic hardships by helping people under extreme poverty in low - and middle-income countries than we can by spending it in france . how many lives are that a worthwhile issue ? suppose that we were asked to save the lives of people who would live 60 more years ; that 9000 years of annual benefit is the equivalent of saving 150 lives a year .
spending on such priorities as energy and the environment can be helpful . in fact , some see germany as a renewed commitment to cutting carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 to meeting the targets of the 2015 paris climate agreement , as a battering ram against the schwarze null . on september 20 , germany announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of emissions-reduction spending . in the us , such a package would be called a green new deal . but getting serious about carbon emissions and other ecological goals may not imply larger budget deficits .
while many institutional reforms are development-friendly , they might not focus on key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capability , poverty alleviation – and sometimes divert attention from them . in the real world , opening up is not the simple matter of revising tariff codes and revoking foreign investment barriers . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of the true article , because it unleashes expectations that are unlikely to meet them . it demands a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and political resources . any economist who seems to question the benefits of trade openness risk banishment is so let me be unequivocal : i do not question the standard-bearers of the gains-from-trade theorem , but the extravagant , unwarranted claims made about the consequences of openness .
to play an effective role in conservation of the planet and its peoples , seas must be rigorous , credible , and transparent . that means they must be conducted by well-regulated , impartial professionals . but , as the examples being cited above reveal , the seas are not fulfilling their purpose clearly . with the assessors frequently compiling their conclusions on only a superficial appraisal of ecological and market value borne by affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects are often enacted , despite the failure to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidelines . this is because , as it stands , researchers typically conduct seas at the behest of project developers – a practice that , as activists have emphasized repeatedly , is grossly unethical .
nowadays , by contrast , many are questioning the premise that more market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . might such ease and effectiveness not also fuel market instability , serving intermediaries ’ interests more than their clients do ? prior to the crisis , regulators focused mainly on the dismantling of trade barriers , and generally favored actions that made markets more complete by fostering more rapid , cheaper trading of a broader variety of financial claims . but , again , there are signs that such assumptions are now being challenged . that is no longer the case , either .
xinhua announced that local officials responsible for alleged violence could be prosecuted . nonetheless , the central government did very little to halt intimidation by linyi ’s villagers . the central government , however , did far to halt intimidation by linyi residents . following strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate . following strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate .
the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , because the failure to ensure that sufficient liquidity injected huge inflows into emerging asian economies . they are also undermining asian economies ’ need for stronger , more financial-safety nets . overreaction and behavioral economics by market participants could trigger a precipitous reversal in capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages , as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . tighter iranian monetary policies could intensify global credit shortages , thereby putting increasing pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems . these risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion of a potential move toward tapering its purchases of long-term asset purchases ( so-called quantitative easing ) has caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to jump this summer .
the question today is not really about the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been determined . with the presidential term now stretched to six years , we can expect to encore , lasting up to twelve years , longer than putin ’s previous performance . for many russians , if not most , authority figure embodies the powers that control everything that matters in life ; they advocate it , no matter how policies it implements them , because there can be no option otherwise . yet now that delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin will , this time around , become a reformer . this is partly a revelation of enduring popular allegiance to rulers like joseph stalin .
initially , he traveled the world a few months to celebrate his triumph , ignoring turmoil back home . the other major shortcoming was that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , proved to be a feckless and irresponsible president . initially , he traveled the world over the last few months to celebrate his triumph , ignoring turmoil back home . he then began vetoing virtually all of the government ’s decisions , triggering a full-scale political stalemate and , toward the end of his presidency , tacitly joined to the old guard ( now back in power ) against the then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , went against the constitution ) . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russia not to elect an accidental president with vastly disproportionate powers , the underlying cause of a orange government ’s breakdown was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko appointees ) were defectors from the old regime .
given this mindset , performance was not the relevant criterion for judging the utility of the public-sector side . indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism . it embodied the conviction that united nations-vital goods and services must stay within an indian hands – and not in the grip of indians seeking to profit from the creation and sale of such goods and services , but rather in disinterested hands of state , father , and maternal to all indians . “ permit-license-quota ” culture allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public services as a vehicle for private gratification , gave birth to a corruption culture that still persists . inefficiencies were masked by lavish subsidies from the national treasury , and by a combination of vested interests led by socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , business unions , and monopolies were keeping it beyond political criticism .
technology alone can not foster democracy , help answer important questions , and ease effective leadership by boosting accountability . with the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly apparent , many media leaders – close to one-third – according to a reuters institute survey , they believe that in future foundations and inappropriate gains , top-down media will play a central role in spurring media . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , not algorithms or ai-enabled software . potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is as noble a cause , say , cancer research . for organizations without clout – and digital revenues – of the moment , a people-centered approach may be needed to secure investment .
with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s ’s politics could tip the balance . not surprisingly , american president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former advisor , stephen bannon , has rushed to italy in order to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition that he has called the “ ultimate dream , ” because it would rupture the eu . to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to adopt a responsible and explicit economic program , and the democrats would have to embrace being a junior partner in an untested insurgent force . a pro-eu italy , governed by the nanjing coalition could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; reclaim a clear eu foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis america , iran , and the league in order to form a coalition that he called the “ ultimate dream , ” because it would fracture the eu . to forge such a coalition would have to accept a responsible and explicit economic program , with m5s appoints the prime minister .
indeed , whether or not the death penalty is meted out depends on a number of variables , beginning with judicial and social biases . my own statements had also been motivated by problems with how capital punishment is handled in india . the us supreme court has declared that the death penalty should be applied simply in “ rarest of the rare ” cases . and , indeed , the last three executions in the country have stemmed from terrorist offenses that came under threat or took large numbers of lives . but the us decision to impose capital punishment remains highly subjective in some countries .
during the recent tightening cycle between 2004 and 2006 , households ’ after-tax interest income soared 29 % . and the average hourly wages for all workers on personal non-farm payrolls posted an annual expansion of 2.5 % in october – the biggest since the end of 2009 . as the fed slowly begins to raise interest rates , those middle-class families are holding their hard-won savings at the ecb will finally start realizing some of the rate of return on their deposits . while this time , the gains will likely be smaller and slow to materialize , owing to the likely pace and degree of tightening in the fed , the interest paid on savings shifts to households ’ incomes in the right direction : up . the longer-term effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound savings .
beijing – most western media have characterized the communist party ’s recent 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as pure power play , with president xi jinping entrenching his status . but accumulating political capital in this scenario is a means to an end . for xi , that end is taking a smooth transition into modernity , which cements the cpc ’s longstanding authority , ensuring his own legacy as a modern people ’s most significant leader . xi knows that , if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage deftly a sweeping social and economic transformation , while – all the more important – improvements to state governance . and , in order to secure the long-term survival of china ’s one-party system , he must reform the state and party institutions ; in fact , political reform is , for xi ’s majority , a prerequisite for economic reform .
after all , today ’s appalling conditions are the result of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . the time to act is now . at best , our proposal could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and so transform economics and politics around nigeria for decades to come . another is how vast amounts of revenue should be channeled and how transfers can be effected in a country as large , complex , and financially backward like nigeria . but even with all the difficulty of corruption and inefficiency that will no doubt plague its actual implementation , our design supersede the status quo .
new york – financial markets are best understood as a historical process , and history never quite repeats itself exactly exactly . yet the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ? this can not be answered in an abstract way , because every situation is very different . the recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions of currency pegs , asset bubbles , an inadequate provision of banking supervision , and a lack of financial disclosure that can not be ignored . the fragility of financial markets can trigger a severe economic and social dislocations .
indeed , the experience with sars in toronto , which cases escaped detection , and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about seeming scrutiny of the larger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . these epidemics , indeed , may have been completely removed in the coming months . screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented major epidemics elsewhere . but it is at least as likely to persist with some transmission that some transmission occurs or that the virus can be reintroduced to human populations from animals . indeed , health officials around the world should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that renewed control efforts will become required if sars is to resurrect it .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum for addressing transparency of resource revenues , while unnecessarily redirecting the wheel in the process . let us hope that the new iraqi government does a better job . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles available for achieving the global norm of disclosure and responsibility . the eiti still has a long road to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles available for achieving the global norm of disclosure and responsibility . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most powerful vehicles available for achieving the global norm of disclosure and responsibility .
narratives about israel focus almost entirely on the palestinian conflict . there are more united nations resolutions , devoted to human-rights abuses committed by israel , than to abuses by all other countries combined . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; incomparably fewer gazan casualties make them unique . this is not to say that israel should carry consoled macabre arithmetic through a variety of carnage . joyce karam , the washington institute ’s chief of pan-arab newspapers al-hayat , believes that this is because “ muslim kill muslim or arab killing ” appears more acceptable than israel is killing arabs .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization delivered neither growth nor stability to many developing countries . yet , whether spurred by narrow ideology or reacting to special interests ’ demands , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization within its own bilateral trade deals . the second issue concerns the unbalanced intellectual-property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . these clauses restricted countries from making generic drug acquisitions , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in the developing world . spearheaded by the fear of aids , us activists worldwide demanded that something be done .
such efforts are vital to reaching the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . now that the cap is coming to power , the us will soon reap the extraordinary impact of the new , permanent global health dividend . we can expect to see the data in the years ahead indicating reduced health-care costs and improved education outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , governments will be collaborating on additional measures to reduce the environment and mitigate climate impact of the global maritime trading system .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives around the world thus might be interested in learning the four tricks that american politicians commonly used when promising to cut taxes while cutting budget deficits as a result . yet , each of the four tricks has been refined over three decades . indeed , they have first acquired their colorful names in the early days of ronald reagan ’s presidency : charm asterisk , ” ” ” ” the embrace of the “ rosy scenario , the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve the beast ” scenario . these are tough promises to stick , for the simple reason that running the budget deficit equates government spending minus tax revenue .
the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments bail out the largest banks rather than allow them to collapse and damage the economy . so , which is this at all : are the banks still at risk ? or has post-crisis regulatory reform been doing its job ? second , and worse , to be “ too big to fail ” to help big banks grow even larger , because lenders and their trading partners prefer to work with banks that have an implicit government guarantee .
while it is not yet possible to predict the results of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . its participants in chicago will have major differences over these issues , and the results might not be ideal . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration offering further support to the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries request it . but reinventing nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily emerge with little steps . an alliance ’s main objective must be to ensure that these steps are taken forward .
in argentina , the left-right divide has been blurred by the top-down policies of hydra-headed perónist justicialist party that privatized state firms in the 1990s merely to re-nationalize them later . at the same time , macri is best described as a “ liberal ” in the european sense of the word . argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer by training , is frequently described in the international press as “ center-right . ” moreover , “ center-right ” often means that “ conservative , ” ” ” ” and macri ’s victory will not “ confound ” the status quo . but that label , then , is not quite right .
women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene runs the lifetime risks of as much as 85 % of developing breast cancer , with an increased risk of developing ovarian cancer at around 55 % for women with the brca1 mutations and roughly 25 % for women with brca2 mutations . most recently , enormous studies analyzing the effects of single-nucleotide variations in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation carriers identified the so-called modifier who may diminish or increase individual lifetime risks . at majority cases of what familial breast cancer is at play , yet genetic predispositions remain elusive . what we have also learned is that only 20-40 % of the child-cancers that the cluster in families originates from the brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – the genetic alterations that are present from birth in each body 's cell and can be passed on to offspring . an increasing risk of breast cancer is also familiar with several inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition further linked to childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including soft tissue sarcomas leukemias , and brain tumors .
a second problem stems from china ’s unfinished transition on the world stage . after being dominated by world war ii , the american immediate and undeniably overruled the globe . in seeking to take the next stage of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical strength and legitimacy . xi ’s ’s government is struggling to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth to a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda implies that china , ’s attempt to take global change leads will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy .
and staying below the 1.5 ºc limit will mean just 3.3 million fewer cases of dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , poorer people at risk of malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . costa rica prides itself on leading the world by placing that approach in practice . as a result , we are one of the few countries that are ready to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement . our commitment to tackling climate change rests on an understanding of enormous health risks and costs that arise from inaction . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria because our people remain our most significant assets .
but there is a major obstacle to easing tensions : last year , an proposed $ 6.5 billion worth of sales by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . china-us defense talks had earlier stalled due to such arms deals . there is now real hope that the talks along these lines could succeed . supported by china , ’s traditional civilization , with its strengthening of spiritual ties , is at its core . there is now real hope that the talks along these lines can succeed .
and ignatieff has received some of its backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the ruling “ ceu law , ” ” ” ” which the university of cambridge said was intended to force it from the country . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu ’s president and victor michael ignatieff may have said , “ i have the support of i in washington . ” i have support in berlin , support in budapest , [ … ] i have received support in munich . now , it is time to receive some support in brussels .
for example , most chinese physicians and patients have long regarded acupuncture as an effective treatment for stroke , using it to improve motor , speech , and other functions that have been dismembered . more recently , however , systematic advances in scientific studies of acupuncture have begun . almost all trial on acupuncture as a stroke treatment conducted within china has had positive merit . indeed , one survey showed that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat stroke effects , with 63 % of physicians surveyed believing that this was most efficient . indeed , some 36 % of chinese doctors think that acupuncture ’s effectiveness remains precarious , perhaps because the quality of scientists to it remains so new .
in fact , declining labor force power may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies , particularly the eurozone , have continued to undershoot their core inflation targets . yet , all the more important , one might have been the reason that measured productivity has remained persistently weak . clearly , the notion that workers will forever resist cutting wages ( or leaving workers with old hours ) no longer applies . at the same time , economists have faced long-held assumptions about nominal downward wage rigidities , an artifact of the 1960-70s , whereby organized labor became much stronger .
a modern economy , too , requires risk-taking . a country ’s most precious resource is its people , something that can not be found in it . so it is vital to ensure that all of them can live up to their potential , which requires educational opportunities for all . yet there is no equivalent in common trade-off between inequality and growth . to be sure , governments can enhance growth by advancing inclusiveness .
consent should not be snatched away , like a train ticket held out for a conductor . this can lead patients to consent for the procedures they do not understand or want . instead , consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he or she may choose to call in order to relinquish , if put with a sufficiently compelling case . this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of consenting a patient ” – as though it were doing to a patient like drawing blood or administering inducements : “ dr. smith , please go to mr. jones . ” the problem is compounded when consent is reached just hours before major surgery , and the months after the surgeon ’s last consultations .
so far , this abundance of choices has discouraged companies from spending resources for training employees , which might , after all , decide to join a competitor . yet , as talent shortages do loom , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward greater investment in professional advancement . those without in-demand skills struggle and feel disposable income are struggling and feel disposable . by providing learning opportunities , employers become a destination for talent . those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , making them better able to manage their careers and command higher salaries .
similar to traditional military command-and-control protocols , they win power in numbers , and can rapidly respond to a wide variety of attacks . such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reduces opportunities for failure , and mitigating the incursion ’s effects . in such a scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about computers fighting each other while humans stand by . fortunately , in that case , life remains far from imitation . it would portray a broader conception of “ singularity , ” a hypothetical turning point when a artificial ( scientific ) surpasses humans .
on march 6 , i received six recommendations from parliamentarians from the science20 emperor akihito , a first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from its members of the science20 emperor akihito , a first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 . it is precisely for that reason that we must ensure dfft and turn data into public goods for scientists worldwide . by reducing threats to marine ecosystems and conserving marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ setting an improved system of data store and governance , ” which ensures open access to researchers globally , ” and the “ information-sharing ” gained through research activities conducted under extensive and multinational interactions , expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new age , denunciations of reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) occur in japan .
the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously noted that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . and , indeed , city services are often more visible to citizens than federal aid ; consider , for example , responding during a traffic accident , or natural disaster risk . to be sure , today ’s cities are faced with multiple challenges , and we are faced with it . by investing in “ smart-” and resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to a curitiba in brazil in brazil to a curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand identities and courting talent , investment , and companies from around the world . at the same time , cities are experiencing growth through innovation , trafficking , and exchange .
two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas l. friedman , the author of the world is flat-lining , echoing many trump ’s attacks on china , ’s unfair trade practices . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this type of conflict has been brought on solely by trump and his own neo-nationalist agenda . the risk is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would threaten global prosperity ; it is that such developments , too , would raise the possibility of a major political confrontation . technological sovereignty would take place in trading and exchange , and corporations ’ nationality – even major multinational corporations – would become just as important to their business model . if this is where the previous ideological high-rule-of-law cleric now holds , china faces off against not just trump , but liberal america , too .
small states ’ nervousness and fear began to grow roughly during the period of 2000 . the new political realities were emphasized by the iraq war ; china ’s search for energy sources in developing countries ; and russian ’s own assertiveness on foreign and domestic policies . on the international scene , large states try to make international rules and often build their domestic legitimacy on their claims that they should shape the larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers called “ harnessing globalization . ” rather than accepting an international system roughly how it is , with all its imperfections , they think that they may use their weights to change the rules – in their own favor . in a small-nation setting , imposing dense networks of controls is likely to lead to the loss of mobile production factors , while making it harder for labor or capital to flee .
it is also preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 today . as a result , democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy . a law restricting transportation strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy is planning to break up the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . rather than repealing law , overtime work is intended to become easy and relatively inexpensive . this is opening the way for more and deeper reforms .
governments , for their part , regard domestic banks as the important purchasers of sovereign debt , but they play a role in providing credit to the central bank . as a result , authorities in germany and france ( along with japan ) have steadily withstood rising capital requirements , despite the widespread consensus that doing so is an indispensable part of effective re-regulation . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and will likely hamper efforts to put europe ’s economy on the sounder footing . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and will likely hamper efforts to place a european economy on the sounder side . with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has in america ; but the challenge of implementing the eurozone ’s financial reforms really is tougher .
that reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that comprised the original . yet , even as ideas are vastly different , tactics are the same . every time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , forging trump a core support base . in order to consolidate support , thatcher would go head-to-head with carefully chosen enemies – from british miners to argentina ’s president , generalist leopoldo galtieri , to the same bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as the hudson institute of craig kennedy recently pointed to me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals in the struggle for causes that are alienating them from mainstream america . ”
sympathy for this secured gave president his razor-thin margin of victory – with just 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chul , the candidate of the kuomintang party and the people ’s front party ( kmt-pfp ) a grand coalition . taiwan ’s youth democracy must now come to terms with a balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s reelection has thrust upon it . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election of march 20 – only the third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism on a near-breaking point . whereas canvassing for votes in southern taiwan on the eve of elections , president chen and vice president annette lu have been both injured by assassin ’s bullet train . young democracies can be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as their military opponents may be .
but raising russian living standards remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his longstanding legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin ’s failed bid to deliver on his crude promise , made in 2003 , doubling the size of russia ’s economy within the next decade . in nominal per capita gdp , russia still scores little better than mexico ’s . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , because disruptive technologies and entrepreneurial strategies may not decreed from the top . in this respect , current efforts to prop up the syrian government counts as a twofer .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a good chance to become to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva had to theirs : the man of the left , which is moving toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were reelected in the midst of an economic crisis . on assuming power , kim and lula managed to adjust , politically and morally , to the new realities that confronted them , launching much-needed reforms . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neoliberal ” ) , and perhaps could not have been made possible under policymakers of the right . both were immediately faced with the international monetary constraints that opposition policymakers could afford to ignore .
nonetheless , history haunts modi 's crusade , namely the deaths of more than 1,000 people during the anti-muslim riots of gujarat in 2002 . though the supreme court has cleared him of all personal wrongdoers , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it more difficult for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . this has not stopped modi from assuming political risk , starting with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . annual economic growth has averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-quoted for a lee kuan yew world city prize . but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , because it test his domestic appeal .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not be overcome that resistance ; instead , it is simply discouraging initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist pointed out that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp per year . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not be overcome this opposition ; instead , it is simply discouraging initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist pointed out that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp per year . perhaps this can countered the private sector ’s dynamism , but even there , fears of losing control are boosting the party ’s role .
turkey ’s ’s ’s real strengths are its thriving economy , a secular democratic system , and the ability to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twentieth-century mainstream of the twenty-first century . meanwhile , turkey and the united states have each had their mutual interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . but , as turkey redefines closer relations with the us and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to cope with an increasingly assertive russia keen to prove itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean – and maintain its foothold in syria . for better or worse , the status quo in the middle east has unraveled , and turkey must re-think and recalibrate its regional policies . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its status in the wider transformation of its neighborhood .
these remedies reduced the rate of new infections ( though the absolute number of people living with hiv , most notably between 15 and 49 , continues to rise ) . in fact , another important factor was better integration of treatment programs . with nearly two million school-age patients now at an antiretroviral treatment program , annual aids-related deaths have plummeted by around 100,000 since 2005 . epidemics among newborn babies who run at around $ 70,000 a year were cut by some 63 % , the lives of millions of hiv/aids sufferers were protracted . in fact , the government aligned its early-childhood education programs for existing sufferers , started in 2008 with early monitoring programs for pregnant women .
consider a polar bear , which has been threatened with wild extinction by climate change . these mammals are spending up to seven months of a year , hibernating , during which time they are basically imminently “ immobile . ” astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down new bone , by producing substance that inhibits cells that break down bone and foster those that produce a bone and cartilage . a human being would lose the third or more of the bone mass when immobile ones face this time . but this may happen only when nature ’s cornucopia is arranged , so that current and future generations of researchers can make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere .
there is a strong argument , too , for nato to recognize that a single nato of its members , france , has been attacked , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense . the whole alliance should commit itself to defeating terrorism . yet this is not just europe ’s fight or that of the united states . but they need stronger support – not only in flight or weapons and training , but also in western special forces . this is about a global order in a stable and prosperous world .
now the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly shares existential questions about the eurozone ’s survival and the european project as a whole . these debates , and hence the european parliament , which emerges next year , are unlikely to adhere to standard party lines . after all , despite their differences , virtually every eu country in europe is grappling with the question of how much europe wants , how opened and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and about how much social solidarity is to be . it is now the eu that are at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly comprises existential questions regarding the eurozone ’s survival and the european project as a whole . while there will probably also be some of it , for the former , sweeping discussion of europe ’s future and policies , particularly in areas such as migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia .
• while neo-liberals are worried about excessively sovereign governments , weak governments impedes growth , because weak states can not provide laws and regulations ; they can not enforce contracts ; and they can not ensure a secure , sound banking system . the question should not have been about how to deregulate fast , but rather about how to develop an appropriate regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and a host of doing things , which even the best-performing market economies can not satisfy . after all , it was too little regulations – equity and financial market liberalization foisted on east asian countries by the imf and america ’s treasury – that led to the 1997 financial crisis . there was a reality of market failures , but so , too , are government failure .
to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different effects on various groups at different times . the importers favor a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weaker one . a interest-rate hike pleases savers whereas a rate cut is a boon to borrowers . to make any sense at all , monetary policy needs to have different effects on different groups at different times . to be sure , they do , but so to the extent that anything ?
in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than it might appear . nominal wages may actually rise while real wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . even as real wages continue to rise in some coastal towns , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . and even robust domestic wages will not undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity grows steadily faster . so the conclusion seems to be that wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness in the next ten or even 20 years .
to judge whether their prices are “ too high too high a ” at prevailing exchange rates , the us must look to the trade balance . germany , the europe of the largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . germany ’s exports have exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion over the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp . germany ’s net exports have exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion over the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp . germany , europe ’s net exports , has very large trade surplus with the rest of the world .
these structural elements were bolstered by developments in the region , reinforcing a sense among israeli voters that they were themselves victimized by multiple enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its missiles ; the rise of isis amid state-failed states in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . in the weeks leading up to the election , the public seemed to have grown weary of a prime minister who was in office long enough to be corrupted by the hubris of power and tainted by a raft of crass scandals . netanyahu ’s victory was clearly a compelling personal comeback . he conducted a campaign that relied on eloquence and charisma , in addition to scare tactics . against this backdrop , defending the status quo is easier than promoting accommodation involving territorial concessions .
some four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and output started in 2010 . throughout this process , kenya ’s top leaders should bear in mind that even the best plan can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience has demonstrated . but , with the last year ’s presidential election coming , the situation has begun to deteriorate . the petroleum revenue-generating management act divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore saving , as recommended by economists around the world ( including the us ) . as a result , investment should be phased in , which may imply temporarily storing some of the country ’s oil wealth abroad .
new york – in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on the lack of transparency of financial markets . most developing countries were accumulating massive foreign-currency reserves . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , and clandestine bank accounts have thrived . but when developing countries pointed fingers at clandestine bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and us enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished . but there have been some very large differences between now and now .
european policymakers have the tools and intelligence to retain influence in ukraine . in any case , the hardships suffered by the eu ’s citizens might have been lessened if europe followed draghi ’s last prescription , providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to counteract the reform and fiscal consolidation in others . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi managed to minimize them . policymakers should do the same thing when dealing with sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . if they look to the ecb , they will find the right model to deploying them .
so , when sarah palin is escorted to the media limelight , she becomes the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of these silenced , depleted factory workers and defense secretaries . think of the appeal of films like thelma and louise , or of a working girl in which a leading character is a gutsy , exploited secretary who , trampled by a snooty female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to put an end to a dream job , dreamt guy and a corner office . to see a working-class white woman being chosen to serve a heartbeat away from an american president resonates powerfully with them . while news coverage is surfacing that palin has told a bunch of african african-americans that she did not need to hire black people , working-class white women often comprehend their own experiences with racial hostility . they perceive an underclass that they believe to receives the benefits denied to them and a thriving economies of the developing world that siphons well-paying blue-collar jobs .
already , china has delivered on that front by abandoning a growth model that has successfully guided the country ’s breakneck economic development for more than 30 years . it has recognized the need to shift from a model that focused mainly on exports – and investment-led production ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( thanks to services ) . that change will give china a far better chance to avoid the dreaded , middle-income trap , ” ” ” ” ” which ensnares most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that a early-stage takeoff growth recipe is enough to reach developed-country status . the american and chinese cases do not , in fact , exist in a vacuum . yet , as i emphasize in my new book , the codependency of china and the americas ties them collectively .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in warsaw , germany , on the global economic symposium ( ges ) , where they will attempt to devise tangible solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . while such solutions have some merit , they are insufficient to address effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that have brought about the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . whether they produced effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . in fact , at the last year ’s summit , dialogues on the ecb ’s forthcoming inflation targeting against financial stability produced a set of three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary objective . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving near-all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions .
piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by removing trade and investment barriers , globalization has created an winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically advanced actors gain market share through economies of scale . at the same time , as the global economy shifts toward knowledge-based value creation , a few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win large , with a global tech stock-market boom reviving their gains . the global financial system reinforces such concentration , with its negative real interest rates spurring financial repression on household saving . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power , undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities , while empowering smaller players to compete .
but prevention also must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move within and out of capital markets far exceeds the capacity of individual countries ’ own — and the international community — to counter such flows . sometimes , such outflows may occur through not a country ’s fault , but rather as a result of financial-market contagion that spreads out of disturbances elsewhere . all of this phenomenon was all too evident during the asian crisis , and following the russian debt default of august 1998 . many countries lack foreign currency reserves , sufficient to comply with sudden and large capital outflows , without destabilizing their domestic economies .
like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . it is the decision being taken practically independently of prime minister tony blair , and even to some extent against his or her wishes . blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because he wants britain to be , as it puts it , “ to be at the heart of europe ” . the only question now in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite yet , ” “ not before the upcoming elections , ” or just plain “ no . ” most commentators have tended to assume that , if that is what tony blair would wants , then sooner or later , that is what is going on , because , after all , he is a labour deputy .
there was some backlash against trump , when he failed to condemn clearly a white supremacist protesters in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ failure to unite the right ” rally around august ended in the wake of a counterprotester ’s assassination . trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse ” has included commitments to fight truth and evidence , ” and has since been accompanied by an limitless capacity to manipulate mass opinion , as well as to play on such restive emotions as racism and class envy . but , above all , what can stop the demons already unleashed ? and , even if stalled , can the harm they have already wrought be reversed ? the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s current problems are deteriorating and enormous opportunities to miss out .
finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for average childcare costs . that might seem widely beneficial , but it would help only those for high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions – mostly for households with annual revenue above $ 75,000 ( median american household income has been $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike every other us presidential candidate since richard nixon , he has refused to release his income-tax record . finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for average childcare costs . what is certain is that trump himself , by slashing tax policies , is fiscally irresponsible .
and in south africa , marlon parker , a co-founder of the academy of social innovation and incubator rotations centers , has created a virtual currency called zlato provide incentives for active participation in skills-training workshops . when young people attend courses , access laptops , or book rooms at rlabs , they earn zlato credit that can be exchanged for food , health-care , and vital necessities . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and others to contribute to their communities ; they are solving a major cause of migration on – and off – the continent . since its inception in the era of 2008 , interlocutors have created tens of thousands of jobs and is now operating in 24 countries . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs , for example , are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving a root cause of migration on – and off – the continent .
the choice is between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether . avoiding this scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policies stemming from the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . but then again , scotland would call for its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , places the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup and perhaps dissolution . british leaders need to acknowledge that all of brexit scenarios involve the tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs to hold national discussions to rank the electorate ’s preferences . but this would still upset hardline brexiteers , and may split the conservative party , the risk theresa may has been reluctant to take .
encouraged by them to do more , and to give them the reasons even more to do more , india ’s government certainly is a worthwhile task – and the overt goal of an annual conclave . at the same time , the country received $ 70 billion in remittances last year , more than double the level of overall inward foreign direct investment . the importance of diaspora financing – from working-class indians ’ remittances that transformed kerala ’s rural land into one million poured into high-tech companies in bangalore or gurgaon of silicon valley investors – simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . but we should not get away with it : overseas indians still invest a lower proportion of their resources in india than overseas chinese do in china . there is no doubt a utilitarian aspect of the pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the number of parallel seminars going to state governments in order to attract expatriate investment .
apple , for example , recently echoed revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . firms ignoring the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational harm and loss of brand value , falling sales , the difficulty of recruiting talent , less worker productivity , rampant corruption , tougher government regulation , or increased climate-change-related costs . yet there are now mobile phone app stores that evaluate and grade large multinational companies ’ supply chains for customers , investors , and community executives . companies that scores poorly risk losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or legal actions . in response to concerns among customers , employees , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions and agreed to regular reviews by an independent observer .
the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent high-profile paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry summers ) argued that this demographic change explains much of the increased saving rate since chinese substituted capital investment for child-development . they also tolerate enterprise or governmental policies that stimulate high savings . for example , the uptrend in saving in china began at around the same time as its one-child policy was implemented in 1979 . that kept the birth rate from rebounding following the cultural revolution of 1966-76 . but income growth and demographics do not explain everything .
while thought is modern , the idea is not new at all . in the 1970s , former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crusted old veteran of the american civil war , went hand in hand to franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate but did not distinguish a distinguished student . for a long time , practical people understood its importance in leadership . most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as a leader had rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq . asked later about his impressions of a new president , holmes famously quipped : academic second-class intellect ; first-class temperament .
since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been rocked by an near-constant north-south north-south cultural and religious divide . artificial fusion of mainly arab , the muslim north of sudan , and the african south , where christianity and her traditional animist beliefs are predominant , has been an extreme failure . if the non-muslim south achieved at independence a great deal of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy under a decentralized federal structure , the country is conceivable that the country may well have remained at peace . matters were subsequently complicated by a separate conflict – this time among muslims – over the resources of the west darfur region . a separate but simultaneous vote in abyei ’s oil-rich province will allow voters to vote if they wanted to unite the north or south .
being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was both correct and normal ; taking orders from them was not . when i was the administrator of the undp , i had to deal with the constant “ requests ” of ” ” by government representatives . typically , they were formulated in an acceptable manner , asking me to look into ” a particular issue . but i have also received requests , often from global superpowers , in ways consistent with a clear violation of article 100 of the united nations charter , and spending a great deal of time to avoid engaging with governments on these terms . nonetheless , my total experience at the undp and the world bank has suggested that staff and management can and do behave consistent with article 100 .
meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis found that those who ignored climate-change warnings had already taken the finance hit . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund managing director , had lost some $ 90 billion over the past decade , some three-quarters of which went to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , lost a whopping $ 193 billion during the three years leading up to 2018 , because the company has misjudged the pace of the shift toward green energy , as well as a collapse in demand for gas-guzzling turbines and thermal power stations . more broadly , the investor agenda for the low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in tax-led assets . at the same time , these investors are prompting governments not only to curb rising temperatures ; they are also meeting the paris climate agreement ’s far tougher goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
conflict with the united states is , for the moment , unlikely . but trouble with america ’s allies , particularly japan , could easily draw the us into a fight that it so strongly favors to avoid . in short , china is on the verge of large , indispensable , and perilous transformations that promise to transform the country beyond its superior task , or to make anything , including regional stability , far worse . the entire world has a considerable stake in what happens next . at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the us .
south africa , ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer , has likened the bill to the laws of apartheid . south africa enacted the freedom of information law in 2000 , just five years before the united kingdom did . in late november , the lower house of parliament , led by the majority of the african national people ’s congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly passed a new law , “ protecting the nation ’s information bill ” – whose adoption would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution ensures rights for public-sector information , and in many cases private business-law information sound as well . now , however , the law of information in south africa is jeopardy .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , yet it continues to be a potent performer , contributing around one-third of total economic growth worldwide . it has also become more sustainable , in line with a shift in its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china , it has called loudly for new structural-reform commitments to spur growth in both advanced and emerging-market economies . but , at home , china faces serious risks . above all , domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt hoarding to dangerously level .
hong kong – early this century , when china launched its “ go out ” policy , it focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions through chinese firms , few expected the country to emerge quickly as a leading economic player in latin america . yet that is precisely what has now happened . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather fringe economic role in latin america to being among the top investors and trade partners for most of the region ’s countries , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . still , it is precisely on what has now happened . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly – a trend that appears unlikely to change anytime soon – china has set its sights on another goal : expanded its own political influence in the region and beyond .
in remarks following the brexit press conference , trump praised trump as being “ a very colorful , talented person ” and the “ absolute leader ” in the presidential race . and both are prepared – even eager – to bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead . still , the two men have also been consummate propagandists and performers . to be sure , both men also have plenty to lose . there is little question , however , about which an american candidate putin would like to see at the white house .
in practice , this would mean pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . as the economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a larger nation-state , to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth . the first was to adopt the middle right ’s agenda , and pursue the labor-market , tax , and investment policies needed to adjust france to “ capitalist ” globalization . the second avenue would oblige macron to construct on a pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . the second avenue would necessitate macron ’s establishment on a pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism .
mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made that case . in a benign scenario , people will club together in various states , based on their preferences for big or small-government , public or private provision of services , and international cooperation or isolationism . “ why do we look to the federal government to try and fix our local problems ? ” “ if you live in a state that wishes to maternity coverage for everybody , including 60-year-old women , that on a fine , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and if you do not , “ then you can figure out a way to change a state that you live in ” or change “ state legislatures and statehood laws , ” in mulvaney ’s words . in a vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and congressional republicans might seek to constrain progressive states ’ rights .
the blueprints are still formulated , but they have adopted the two countries ’ commitments mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . moreover , they are paving the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new , competitive footing in the regional market . whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s , they meet with nuclear , with those ratios now set to drop dramatically . south korea ’s strategy urges a phased withdrawal from the national nuclear industry , through failed to restore existing licenses and bans on future installations . for years , overreliance on traditional fuels has discouraged investment in energy-generation clean , despite what both countries are green-sector innovators , like energy-storage and smart grids .
a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , it would require china to assert control over its money supply and interest rates to the american level . under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders have essentially agreed to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . the chinese may delay , but they can not hide behind a crucial reality of economic law : if the exchange rate between the two countries ’ currencies is fixed and capital flows between them are unconstrained , the economically dominant one will exercise control over another ’s monetary policies . because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the provision of american dollars , having long since sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply . yet china ’s rulers are right to set aside the decision to float .
in fact , even that level might not be low enough , at least not yet . the good news is that , if we somehow put a stop to all emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only for a full decade , or so , before stabilizing . thus , we are in a race to the us . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scholars believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is a risky , and that adaptation will prove extremely expensive , particularly for developing nations and the island nations . the good news is that , if we somehow put a stop to all emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only for more than a decade , or so , before stabilizing .
but what , precisely , is a fair , democratic process for making irreversible , common-sense decisions ? indeed , nobody has any clue as to the consequences , both for the united kingdom in the global trading system or for dealing with domestic political stability . is it really enough to get the 52 % vote to the breakup of a rainy day ? i am afraid that this will not be a pretty picture . minds you , western citizens are blessed with a way of life in an age of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through a democratic process of eu foreign and civil wars .
so one would expect that smaller countries would spend proportionally more on defense than larger ones . indeed , us defense spending is 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom have reached 3 % . but confining debate about the defense commitment to gdp spent on the military is insufficient , owing to economies of scale on defense spending . instead , today , america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and defense spending in the us is likely to grow even more in coming years . security and global influence are not the only benefits that come through military spending .
new york – at the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly earlier this month , there was a widespread feeling of foreboding between the world ’s leaders . back in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate postwar era and viewed as though he was “ “ present at the creation of a new world , ” based on shared rules and shared institutions . at the un unga earlier this year , however , many of the attendees felt as though they had been present for the destruction of that world . even before the summit had begun , europeans , canadians , south koreans , and japanese consult in earnest about the need for renewed alliances to save the multilateral system . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say , do , or even tweet .
in the medium term , the world abounds with tensions and potential crises that america ’s leadership is likely to be indispensable for resolving . as events over the last two weeks in egypt have illustrated all too vividly , the arab awakening is not yet in its first acts in many countries . indeed , at best , it is democracy that is fragile across north africa ; and , across the middle east , jordan , palestine territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have merely begun to feel a ripple of a tidal wave sweeping the region . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel could flare up at any moment . even as asean remains on the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy ; nudging wary rivals closer to one another to create a united arab opposition ; and working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals .
these new leaders envision europe only as a trade regime . the impact of this lost european perspective became readily apparent when , in the aftermath of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was , perhaps , nationalistic and wholly , anti-european . in fact , these new leaders envision europe only as a trade regime . in today ’s germany , because no one with the deciding power in business , finance , or government experience to fight war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future . there would not be a common european plan for dealing with the crisis , and no call to use public money .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . such shortcomings are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious , winner-take-all dynamic .
such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is now being entered into force by russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to be welcomed . when the underlying purpose of the treaty is neither about free trade nor the liberty of liberty . but , sad to say , the treaty will entrench the postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal enterprise practices , not enhance trade or prosperity . to be sure , when is a free-trade agreement bad ?
the ascent of nahda ( the renaissance ) , a leading islamist party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among newly liberated people than is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill a post-revolutionary political vacuum . indeed , the party ’s imposing headquarters in the suburbs of tunis symbolize its status as the country ’s most effective political operation by far . since january , nahda has opened over 200 offices dead in electoral campaigning . while opponents ominously remember the complicity of party cadres in the deadly bombings of tourist targets in 1991 , nahda has gone out of some lengths to appease its critics . indeed , scores of volunteers are posted on electoral campaigning at grassroots , door-to-door levels .
in earlier decades , countries held dollars simply because they needed to have a highly liquid and broadly accepted currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded their exports . the problem is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” ” in the traditional sense . consider the first claim that the us dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold us dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was american treasury bills . yet , since the late 1990s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and a desire to avoid a repeat of the wrenching speculative currency attacks triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis .
by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamities . it is very hard even for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary provides a clear example of the former . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian .
new york – the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to increasing global conflict . yet countries and organizations are already mobilizing . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to mankind . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common plan of action , and france , ’s former president , nicolas sarkozy , has proposed the global food partnership . the davos world economic forum forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion and break the cycle of poverty .
many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative , because they are obliged to hold safer bonds . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest mostly in bonds , which are in a less risky way than stocks or other volatile assets . and yet , negative bonds yields also flow into countries and regions where the currency is depreciating , and likely to depreciate further , including germany , the other peripheral eurozone countries , and japan . of course , the negative returns give their balance sheets shakier : defined-benefit pensions plan needs positive returns to break even ; and when most of its assets yield a negative nominal return , such outcomes become ever more difficult to achieve . so , why are investors clinging to those assets ?
with opinion polls showing that around 70 % of the french support the yellow vest protesters , macron was forced into retreat . in his first year and a half in office , macron started to grapple with these problems , and succeeded in delivering a budget along the lines of eu deficit-financed rules . the problem is that in pursuing such reforms , macron has abandoned his core , center-left constituency . step by step , his reforms have seemed consistently intended to benefit the wealthy . and so , when may announced that his administration would raise taxes on diesel fuel , middle – and working-class commuters took to the streets .
in recent years , there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation , rooted partly in fears that have stoked populist political leaders in many countries , that supranational “ elites ” are attempting to impose “ globalism ” : the “ ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . ” as it stands , perhaps the biggest barriers to international cooperation are political . many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their sway over the international system by intervening politically and militarily in each other ’s affairs without obvious endgame . yet perspectives that refute that narrative seem to be gaining ground . some also argue that the global elite have pretended only to pursue socioeconomic change while in fact maintaining the status quo that benefited them .
by inflating inflation , the fed would turn real interest rates into serious negative , making coercing thrifty households into instead of saving . this bears different logic from the one that cries out for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at the expense of investors ) , but has equally severe weaknesses . first , while low rates might stimulate spending if credit were simple , this is not at all clear that traditional savers would go out and spend today . think of the soon-to-be-retire us office workers . with rising demand , firms would hire , and all that is fine .
for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , aid figures were padded by a misleading accounting price on debt-cancellation operations . with those debt cancellation operations largely complete , the data reveal a stark truth now : development aid to africa , and poorer countries more broadly , is stagnant , contrary to all of the promises being made . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , total aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation , operations increased at a rate of meager 2 % . at the same time , the g-8 is reaping the effects of its inaction . while the g-8 made a clear promise , there was no plan on how to fulfill it ; in fact , there were unequivocal calls in the absence of such a scheme .
according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on the 2015-2016 life in transition survey produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived increase in inequality far outweighs the reality that reported official data , typically relying on household survey data . yet , on the global level , inequality is decreasing globally , at best . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been inequality . but that is not exactly what the average citizen sees . and while inequality has been rising in some advanced economies , the increase has not been particularly dramatic , and it remains at a reasonable level .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve ’s system is one of the most powerful sovereign governments in world history . america ’s ’s central bank has control over the money supply , and it currently exerts profound influence over us interest rates , on its short - and long-term borrowing terms . and , though the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even stronger authority and greater responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , for the fed ’s own policymaking position is far more precarious than its own leadership seems to realize . and , though the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that have led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown since the great depression of 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even greater authority and more responsibility to supervise the financial system .
as a result , scientists and engineers confront a daunting task during the anthropocene era : to guide us toward environmentally sustainable management . this will require responsive human behavior at all levels , and may well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to optimize ” climate . more by luck than truth-taking wisdom , it has failed to develop this catastrophic situation . unless a global disaster struck – a meteorite impact , world war i , or a pandemic – mankind will remain an important environmental force for many millennia to come . at this stage , though , we still have largely treading on terra incognita .
in all of these cases , a cynic would have been half-right . but there are also at least two exceptions to such suspicions . one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that recently emerged from dictatorship . constitutional change is to political leaders , a welcome distraction from the much more change-resistant questions of social policies . yet , at least two exceptions are missing from this suspicions .
its annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest rate for any quarter in seven years , has surpassed market expectations . and it has been powered in part by the unforeseeable upward march of real-estate investment growth , to 6 % . that is undermining corporate profitability , devoting companies to deleverage and cut investment , fueling further declines in ppi . furthermore , the sustained importance of real-estate investment to china ’s ’s economic rise reflects trends from the first quarter of this year . that is not to say that what china needs is more real-estate investment .
but this does not mean that trump skeptics can simply sit back , waiting only to prove wrong , owing to the possibility that an reported trade deficit will narrow in the first year , even as true trade deficit widens . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which establishes a plant in iran . iran ’s affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , intellectual-property intellectual property represented by a drug patent ) , assembles the product in iran , and export it back to the us . it all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” ” – prices that have been multinational corporations use to peg value at cross-border trade in inputs among its subsidiaries . in value-added terms , a patent makes the single largest contribution .
recommendations included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing access to sexual education , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma on abortion . if countries like south africa are ever to escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to combat the global gag rule . solutions start at home , meaning that developing countries must start shifting away from conditional aid , which restricts health providers ’ capacity to work in line with local laws . local ngos , together with responsible global aid , must find new aid for programs that educate women about their own rights , and that provide access to safe abortion services . and yet , as a result of american policies , none of these changes will come easily .
us technology firms are eager to play a central role in providing new ideas and disruptive thinking . in establishing such a fund , we are quitting an era of formulaic crisis response . what makes this fund unique is not the abundance of new benchmarks that it sets out . we want firms that already offer online learning , the internet access , and hardware to drive education delivery to displaced and isolated girls and boys . it has been gandhi ’s belief that reflection can motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass .
civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but was under turmoil . debate over an association agreement with the european union , together with a polish russian-backed rebellion in eastern ukraine , stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . russia ’s intervention had to some extent backfired , boosting support for a european orientation . but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has begun to pull itself apart . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the rest of the eu , but the overwhelming majority of voters have emerged in european favor .
the bank for international settlements , agustín carstens , the former governor of mexico city ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the current bank of england ’s governor ) next year as chairman of the fsb . the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , which is under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . yet regulators are now keenly focused on the implications of brexit , which will require sophisticated arrangements to manage a new relationship between london and the rest of the eurozone . against this backdrop , the challenge will be to retain the primacy of global standards , and to secure continued buy-in of the basel process . it is too likely that a new chair of the basel committee itself will soon be created .
crisis-resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally have been absent . crisis-resolution mechanisms to the banks that operate globally have simply been absent . crises have made it clear that national supervision of banks that operate globally is inadequate . supervision , more transparency in financial markets , efficient early-warning systems for financial crises , and improved international political coordination . there is an obvious risk to international coordination of regulation .
europe may face down the threats of america ’s extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoided american banks . in reality , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee bonds , and rubles , avoiding america ’s banks . in pursuing them against much of the outside world , america ’s damage to america ’s economy , its dollar , stock markets , and us leadership would be irreversible .
countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . the fact that the international monetary fund , the american justice department , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing vulture funds is revealing . but so , too , is the court ’s decision , which evidently bear little weight for their arguments . such contracts should also include collective-action clauses , making it all but impossible for vulture funds to hold debt restructurings . when a sufficient share of creditors agree on a plan for restructuring ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s gdp did ) , others may be forced to go along .
as the u.s. treasury ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress noted , for china , such plans are intended to “ rebalance its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . ” but expanding demand and allowing real , effective exchange-rate appreciation against china will not be enough unless other countries are doing their part . indeed , rebalancing the growth pattern is the central economic goal of china ’s leadership . oil exporters must increase fiscal expenditures further ; japan and the european union must trigger higher growth via structural reform ; and america must implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings . knowing what to do in this increasingly sophisticated and volatile situation is the easy part : looking at the policy agendas of multilateral consultation and “ “ just do their place . ”
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of the economy ’s welfare state for more than 80 years . yet , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-oriented , economists are increasingly questioning gdp its usefulness as an gauge of the economics profession , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , america remains a positive force around the world . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , combined with the european union , that should stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal , and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . the notion that he should not take steps to safeguard his interests is ideological partiality as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out to win him . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pockets surely should be worrying to americans . and western policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in core countries like poland – are not necessarily wrong .
fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment is being honored . according to the oecd and the un climate policy initiative , developed countries have collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 , and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poorer countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . but larger financial flows are needed , particularly from the private sector . if one assumes greater leverage for private-sector investment , the figure would be larger . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment is being honored .
first , among such sources of insecurity is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will greater multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions be able to adapt quickly enough to harness change , or be overtaken by it ? moreover , while interstate conflicts have collapsed , intrastate conflicts fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa , respectively . and this leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional fragility remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there are the set of questions regarding the impact of new technologies .
whoever controls iraqi oil controls iraqi oil . if the bush administration sought a stable , secure , varied , and oversupply of oil , it could simply raise embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let the oil gush . the bush administration recognized that mainly iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical asset . the irony , however , is that america has exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un 's pre-war `` oil-for-food program '' ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than does it will in any future democratic iraq . true , if the bush administration sought a stable , secure , varied , and cheap supply of oil , it might simply raise embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let go of oil gush .
but challengers , such as china and india , are in no position to preach . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are the concomitant feature of western capitalist cultures . moreover , even if china were to become the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than that in china . several hundred india ’s oligarchs hold assets equivalent to 25 % of gdp , whereas 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar a day . compared to indian capitalism , managerial failures elsewhere look particularly benign .
one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is the american payroll tax , for which the marginal tax rate is approaching an average rate ( because deductions are absent , and there is very little graduation under the rate structure ) . normally , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar in varying levels of labor income , various kinds of consumption , for outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on . viewed from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to means of testing of welfare programs ) and , more recently , at the apex ( owing to a graduated-rate structure ) . thus , the government has moved in the wrong direction since 2009 , getting sharply higher marginal tax rates at the lower bound ( via dramatically increasing transfer programs ) , and , more recently , at the top ( by raising tax rates for the wealthy ) . that is why cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 , and making the rate schedule more graduated ( on the medicare side ) have been flaws in the standpoint of efficient tax rates .
for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for grain ; they must now pay more to fetch it back to their countries ; and still more to deliver it to consumers who may be living a long distance from their ports . rising interest rates can reduce aggregate demand , which can slow an economy , and tame the rise in the prices of some goods and services , particularly non-traded goods and services . but , unless they are taken to unbearable levels , these measures by themselves may not cause inflation down to targeted levels . for example , even if global energy and food prices rise at a still more subdued rate than now , say , a 20 % annual rate and get reflected in domestic prices , bringing the total inflation rate to a level of , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere , that would almost surely entail a labeled economic slowdown and high unemployment . so long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy – and fail to take measures that must restrain the impact of international prices on home prices , home prices – home rice prices and other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices fall .
an important point for them is that they gained revenge by inflicting harm , showed that they were real men , did not buckle under , and survived . as a result , they are not , formally , giving up anything at all . such a pattern is a formula for endless conflict and endless defeat . the leaders that brought forth failures , plus groups that did not so much triumph , become heroes for being able to claim that they courageously fought the enemy without being crushed . yet the defeats do not drive new attitudes , policies , or leaders .
although america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to the central tenets of their democracy : free , fair , and regular elections and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is unlikely to attempt to spin any of them ; and even if he does try to do so , he is failing at all . fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . after he leaves office , the american people will essentially be what it was when they enter it : the global most powerful democracy . the basic american governance institutions have survived bigger challenges than anything trump may be willing to pose .
in the real world , who should have access to any given samples at all ? for what purposes can they be made to use ? certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent , even if tissue were already removed from a patient ’s body . in the us , virtually all of us have tissue at file somewhere in the way . today , there are brain tissues , breast tissue banks , bloodletting banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and movie repositories to study these diseases .
with soft power , however , the energies of empowered followers strengthen leaders . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened female participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership imperatives . leadership is broadly distributed across healthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders . at the same time , they must understand better the nature of contextual intelligence that they will need to train their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . in turn , potential leaders can learn more from the sources and limits of soft-power skills of emotional iq , vision , and communication , together with hard-power political and organizational skills .
moreover , morocco has repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiations . it did so , in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy , from traveling to the region , to set the stage for the talks . the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a cease-fire deal . but morocco kept that effort ever to take the place . that deal was intended to set the stage for an independence referendum in western sahara that followed a year later , a democratic solution .
furthermore , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac , the gaullist party for sarkozy , and françois mitterrand for the royal , both very much in france . to a large extent , sarkozy may be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand , with less . furthermore , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac , the gaullist ump , for sarkozy , and françois mitterrand in favor of the royal , the far right , like a rupture . victor openly maintains mitterand ’s legacy as seeking legitimacy , whereas sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s ’s legacy has more to do with form than substance . when voters make their choice in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did in france in 2002 , when chirac faced the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability later this year . global power needs to be allocated somewhere ; unless an american would fill its leadership role on the international stage , an understudy would need to tread . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo oil platforms from the waters of disputed paracel islands last july to send un oversight vessels to the senkaku islands less often . chinese officials , too , became more willing to discuss creating a code of conduct for the south china sea . with obama unwilling or not because of rising political partisanship at home , his taking the lead in resolving crises such as those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to america ’s american primacy took heart in 2014 , and america ’s allies took the fright .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women started entering the labor market in large numbers . indeed , a typical full-time male employee ’s income is lower today than it has been in more than four decades . yes , we have done some things more to do with better financial markets than we did at any time in recent years . most americans ’ incomes and wealth levels are down to levels not seen since women began to enter the labor market in large numbers . some increases in capital requirements have occurred – but far short of what is needed .
new york – whether or not america will continue to lead the world remains unclear , either . the country ’s two leading opposition candidates , donald trump and ted cruz , both suggest that they would tear iran ’s nuclear agreement with north korea : the kim regime has promptly and predictably developed a nuclear-armed iran . whether or not america will continue to lead the world remains unclear as well . the republican presidential campaign adds another element of uncertainty to trump . what is already clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant .
in return , legal proceedings against the opposition parties were opened in a transparent manner . president vladimir voronin subsequently granted amnesty for detainees . nevertheless , many remain in its detention , and voronin , conducted by the opposition and romania of organizing a greek coup d’état . restoring stability and a fair democratic system to moldova are important , first and foremost , because moldovans deserve a government that is accountable . stability is also important , owing to country frontiers on romania , the european union ’s membership state .
on the eve of their slumping , a few arab autocrats in fact were lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” economic policies . this raises a raft of other questions , all the more so in the world . the world bank ’s successive mea culpa is the clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies that had been legislated to the arab ancien régimes . in the past , were they misled by bogus misinferences ? in the wrong indicators , were economists focused on the wrong indicators ?
owing to rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) , and the amount may reach a rmb1 trillion by the end of the year . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . in the wake of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) , and the amount may reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year . the key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent residents from holding rmb-denominated assets , which are unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but so far they have worked ( so far ) , meaning that china effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years .
the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently for an age of overall war that would arrive for less than a century after their death . democracy is under direct threat in a country where it should have its deepest cultural and political roots . yet more than that is needed . trump wants not just to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it . at the same time , he and his supporters have taken aim at the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy rests , including the courts , the legislature , independent media , and more .
in short , structural reforms alone can not be relied upon to stimulate growth in 2012 . instead , the immediate focus must be on boosting investment and exports in economies with current-account deficits – for example , france , italy , spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . whereas official interest rates are just 1 % of gdp , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , while creditworthy firms in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . thus , the ecb should do more to unblock the monetary-policy transmission mechanism ; the european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit a unified 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size enterprises . the european central bank acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs to stimulate the real economy all the same as well .
his new government vows to continue eliminating the public-sector deficit and reducing the unemployment rate . during prime minister aznar ’s first term in office , his popular labor party privatized most public-sector firms , and a deregulated increased number of service industries . now , aznar ’s program is sensible still ambitious : the government has been promoting grand troughs . introducing genuine competition in energy and telecoms , lacking in the privatization process until now , is also committed . it also promises to cut income taxes , put poland ’s social-welfare system on a firmer footing , and reduce costs for shedding labor .
cambridge : nowadays , the internet pervades every sphere of business life ; the leap forward of business activity over internet astounds . an important new report by america ’s department of commerce , “ an emerging digital economy , ” indicates that it is reshaping the internet not just for american entrepreneurship , but for the global economy . as recently as january 1995 , an estimated 27,000 business addresses were connected to the internet . in 1994 , an estimated three million people , mostly american , were using the internet . in 1998 , 100 million people over the entire world are linked to the internet .
there is no dependable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” local foods . while cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may come to light , so far no new superweeds have emerged . ( natural foods also can pose health risks , as was shown recently by studies establishing that a popular species of cinnamon can cause liver damage . ) we should be glad to go so far as to argue that – and perhaps regulations introduced in response to the fears expressed by environmental organizations have played a role in such outcomes . regulations to preserve the environment and consumers ’ health must be maintained .
alas , another lesson from the financial crisis is that most politicians are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until the risks actually materialize . we are told not to over-react with large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments remain vigilant . on the contrary , virus protection and the development of virus represent an uneven arms race . at the same time , let us hope that we are fortunate for some time . a virus may be just a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must be designed to detect a wide class of enemies .
indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country workers would provide a larger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . moreover , each dollar invested in such an initiative would generate almost $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient use of scarce resources . these impressive figures have emerged from an in-depth analysis , conducted by a team of top economists tasked by my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessment of possible population-related targets , to identify the best global investments . this approach has vast potential benefits . these migrant workers ’ taxes would help the advanced countries fund services for the elderly , with remittances helping their home countries .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most widely used drugs . it is favored medication for relieving fever and pain because of its safety profile , ten years ago , the hypothesis was proposed that using paracetamol may have increased the risk of developing asthma treatment . since then , a host of epidemiological studies have reported an association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in our womb , childhood and adulthood . these studies have led to the suggestion that the use of paracetamol can represent an important risk factor in developing childhood asthma . the substitution of paracetamol for aspirin , the researchers have proposed , may have led to an augmented allergic immune response , thereby increasing susceptibility to childhood childhood asthma and other forms of allergic disorders . wellington – known as acetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) – is one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” declares charles mcgruder , a professor at the us department of physics and astronomy of west kentucky university . mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that the region ’s space program is critical to raise careers ’ profile in science and engineering in an element of a world where the most educated people still go to financing or manage . today , the country believes that some 60 working astronomers have been treated by the country , more than half of all mineral-astronomers working in africa . in a country profoundly divided economically , “ “ what on earth ” is the benefit of the poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ? “ the answer , ” they argue , is partly that , by promoting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . today , the country believes that it has some 60 working astronomers , more than half of all minders working in africa .
mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were the logical result . in such a system , calls for a gentler capitalism are mere fads – particularly in the post-2008 reality , which confirmed total control over society through mega-firms and mega-banks . unprecedented new debt was thus created to shift the value of the present , in the hopes of smarting sufficiently to repay the future . because neither banks nor investors had enough cash to plough them into networked mega-firms , a mega-bank emerged in the form of the ring-fads of banks and shadowy money-market funds , each with its own shareholders . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all of today ’s other ingredients of discontent with capitalism became inescapable .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that the global imbalances of growth would reemerge as soon as the crisis progressed . that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is set to return to its pre-crisis growth rates or expenditures pattern . indeed , that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is set to return to its pre-crisis growth rates or expenditures pattern . emerging markets , for their part , have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee for rapid growth . america ’s trade position will be reinforced by a shale-gas revolution , one that promises energy self-sufficiency and by raising productivity gains that auger gradually reclamation of manufacturing .
both governments have been cracking down on nongovernmental organizations and focused or co-opted media outlets . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find a credible message alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are piloting eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . during the electoral campaign , orbán ’s fidesz party saturated the country in the face of xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . in fact , orbán was the subject of several investigations by europe ’s anti-fraud office . despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats , now holds his two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough to amend the constitution .
following such discussions , america ’s national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that authorize the use of state-administered stem-cell research , but , in its current form , federally-financed investigators from creation of new stem cell lines . that restriction requires that the stem cell lines be acquired solely from the privately-funded or commercial sources that follow the protocols mandated by guidance . we know that a varied variety of highly poorly understood factors are causing embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to differentiate among all possible cell types of cell lines . this loss of capacity on differentiate can be caused by the particular mode in which stem cells are derived , terms surrounding their growth , and by other handling variables . i am convinced that restricting the use of government funds for creating stem cells , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps .
while bank regulators have the tools to put pressure on banks similarly , their most effective is the power to trigger insolvency , when the economy is best . taking this tool away could have severe adverse consequences . for example , a plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank run ’s default , leaving it with a discretionary authority over the bank ’s own managers . yet , far from accepting those contributions , the scheme would largely slash regulators from the process . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often wait for too long before they can declare bankruptcy , thereby enabling creditors to step in to do some pressure , potentially even forcing a bankrupt firm to default .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has since shifted away from the need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” ” of climate change . investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind is no longer bending on ecological grounds . unfortunately , this does not measure up to the end of economic reality . instead , we are being told of the purported economic payoffs , above all through the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” the copenhagen consensus center asked gül , a high-ranking energy economist at the centre for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin , to assess the state of the science ” in defining , measuring , and predict the creation of green jobs .
genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to stimulate two struggling governments and overcome their conservatism . after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across all industries is vital to success . in today ’s winner-take-all winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of newly crafted wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest-growing . yet it is regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are extremely murky . it is absolutely essential to join this text , tailored to the contemporary world in which we live – a world where politics has no longer been conducted in muffled ministerial debates , or through convoluted communiqués .
that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable government , rather than subsidizing failure and failed states . while there is much that can and will do to help our best , the horn of africa can still reap the benefits of international assistance . for example , somaliland and ethiopia are collaborating on building gas-export pipelines from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new employment and incomes to those in one of the world ’s poorest and least developed parts of the world . yet the international community needs more than providing food and medicines to victims of famine and drought . needed as it is , we need pro-growth investments that can help provide jobs for our peoples and goods and resources for the world .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . trento – the most significant result since last european parliament elections – is neither that the conservatives and social democrats have lost seats to the liberals and the greens , nor that far-right nationalists have gained less than expected . it is that citizens have voted in a much larger number of numbers than anyone expects . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
in a sense , the killings at srebrenica have also been tainted by memories of world war ii . nevertheless , laudable efforts to block such an act from recurring have had unfortunate consequences . for , in our demeaning to learn lessons from history , we often learn the wrong ones , or distort history toward dubious ends . even though there is no rare condition for mass killings in history , hitler 's destruction plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual . we know that hitler had intended to bring down every last jewish man , wife , or child .
but the path for particularistic action that does not undermine the liberty and equality of all citizens is narrow . democratic principles appeal to organizing a society in such a way that both values are likely to be realized to maximize the maximum possible extent . this may , in fact , limit political liberty , in the name of greater equality . this is a paradox intrinsic to democracy , and it is a duty of politicians everywhere to come to terms with the tensions that it affords them . yet it is also the duty of citizens to preserve the formal , political meaning of citizenship as state interference broadens to guarantee the well being of everyone .
do these figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are the usual signs of a boom ? to begin with , households would behave in a totally irresponsible way . as a result , the us treasury would behave in a totally irresponsible manner . a thuggish imbalance would be illegitimate , indeed , unsustainable . if america ’s below-trend growth rates remain what they have been over the last 30 years , the answer is straightforward and terrifying .
baverez 's evidence of deseparation is not as compelling as he believes . he cites , for example , draining away from industrial jobs as the most glaring evidence of france 's decline . true , france does indeed perform better than most of its wealthy country rivals , and unlike germany , the united kingdom , or the us , have retained the same global market share in the industrialized industries that it did in the early 1970 's . yet deindustrialization is common in all advanced countries . moreover , according to a better measure of comptetitiveness , foreign investment , france is very well .
a second lesson to be learned is also helpful to the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge and where all actors from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must come to terms with the challenges of globalization and human interdependence on a daily basis . that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has enemies . it is that these friends deserve respect and attention ; indeed , they deserve respect and attention . yet , if italy and the eu had not grasped the need to work with non-european countries and make them sense of responsibility and fully-fledged protagonists , their efforts to establish the icc and be so close to proclaiming a universal moratorium on capital punishment would have failed . i know that this is not exactly a new lesson ; rather , it is what i had in mind when i think of efficient multilateralism .
empathy makes us kinder for people with whom we empathize . the problem is that empathy for american workers runs deeper than empathy for workers in mexico and chile , which would be even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts are . trump , in his campaign speeches , made use of the tragic killing of occupy steinle pen , by an undocumented immigrant in order to stoke the support of his anti-immigrant policies . of course , he did not offer any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who savaged people ’s lives , though such cases have been reported . that is the kind of good , but it , too , has a darker side to do .
or it might be the fact that national policymakers have no confidence in the imf , given that it has essentially missed the global financial crisis . if it does , the fund needs to win back trust once again . that brings us to the imf ’s peel fourth role , namely to use its bully pulpit to warn of the risks generated by large-country policies . in fact , financial markets and global institutions with a global reach need a global macro-prudential regulator , not just a loosely organized public university of supervisors . small countries are subject to market discipline , as every latvian will tell you .
provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for labor , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall , except in a few niche markets . simply put , businessmen do not need the low rate of inflation to expand production . this has been friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize price levels . true , they need only prospects for more sales of labor .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is around half the size of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s , though larger , than that of japan ’s , and more than twice the size of india ’s . these divergences are helping to explain why a wide range of new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of n-11 , which include mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey , and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i have n’t devise these groupings , but i have come to associate themselves with them , have produced bbc radio encursory documentary inside the mint countries in 2014 . at each rate , they have been keeping up with earlier points that i have risen ; namely , that mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey each account for more than 1 % of global gdp in the future . eight years on , fog ’s old economies still have a chance to account for about 2-3 % of world gdp
america ’s intelligence agencies have been warning president barack obama ’s russia tactic , warning putin for adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to call out russia publicly , or to take forceful action on fear that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls , and he was threatening hillary clinton ’s much-anticipated victory . following the election , obama went public and exiled russian spies and closed some us diplomatic installations , but america ’s weakness undercut any deterrent effect . the brilliance of russia ’s innovations in information-technology warfare was intended to combine existing technologies with a level of deniability that remains well below the overt threshold of overt attack . and because president donald trump has treated the topic as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration has also failed to take robust actions .
cambridge – this year ’s ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has shaken off the way the campaign runs , how a nominee communicates with voters , and a platform republican party with many of his stances deviating from gop tradition . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line , and that is , by no means a good thing . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s proclaimed positions risks being rendered meaningless in just a few hours . he is changing his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing senate statements early after them .
moreover , ukraine ’s crisis is far from being resolved : the minsk ceasefire agreements are ignored , and armed conflict may escalate at every moment . then there is russia ’s presence in syria , once again , in the region . and it appears likely that russia has been intervening militarily in the internal politics of western democracies , employing leaks of sensitive documentaries and funding right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump in supporting the kremlin . this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . russia has withdrawn from a series of nuclear agreements , and the kremlin has recently imposed iskander missiles , which can transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad , near the polish border .
trump ’s approach is particularly striking in view of the fact that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s main national-security question . yet the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why , then , should the us seek to undermine europe , rather than pursue closer cooperation in order to preserve its own economic and geopolitical interests ? why , then , should america try to undermine europe , rather than pursue closer cooperation in order to preserve its own economic and geopolitical interests ? so us friends again seem to want to – or perhaps resting upon before the dispute resumes .
the report – the product of a few months of debate within the german foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany of its current values and interests as its commitment to “ human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , ” and an international order shaped by universal norms of debate . the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to those of other nation-states – geography , demography , economic heft , and military might , coupled with the availability of resources and technological proficiency – remain relevant ; but they are often insufficient to confer real influence on international politics . to achieve that goal , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to solve problems and resolve conflicts affecting every or part of the international community . as gauck proclaimed , germany must be the “ overriding strategic objective ” : the “ preservation and ongoing adaptation ” of that order . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that allow it to work well with others , and build and mobilize like-minded states ’ coalitions and networks .
and he implicitly denounced gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to assist poland as a source of diversification of its gas supply . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and outspoken critic of the pis , concludes : “ i believe that trump ’s speech has been well done . ” he has n’t utter a single negative word about the european union , germany , or france . he has made powerful allusions to poland ’s history , and has been very flattering to the us as the poles . with his performance , trump has managed to attract enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not only from pis-curated crowds , thanks in part to his public greeting of opposition leader lech wałęsa , who booed pis supporters and remains the constant target of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader .
given that all of this activity is taking place in the offshore renminbi market – which is small in scale and has only limited links to mainland china ’s financial system – the result of china ’s hesitancy to maintain financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility , the situation remains controllable . yet , of course , this does not mean that there are no risks . add to that china ’s additional strengths – an annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion ; a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average ; $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves ; a savings rate of more than 40 % of gdp ; and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis looks highly unlikely . the key will be to get markets and policymakers onto the same page . on the contrary , because china has a strong interest in curbing volatility , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility .
if your behavior is good – ie , non-drinks , beat your spouse , and , of course , donated money to the church – you are all right . to be sure , faith is a matter of the heart ; it is also a matter of heart . many polish bishops have just proclaimed themselves to proclaim their flock : one is supposed to listen rather than think or argument . in the church boasting of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” looks startling . even young men who study for priesthood receive very weak philosophical training and perform purposefully .
as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of the specific profession , including journalists , present no form of islam from such types of severe criminal charges . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved to be the main guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its judicial reform . furthermore , it should be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are published in turkey , with the total daily circulation of almost five million copies . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor opposition from the government . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved itself to be the main guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its judicial reform .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . in fact , nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can not point to a fast-rising standard of living . the us and others will need to push back to ensure that china does not act on such a temptation at all . but these countries would be just as wise to signal to china that it is a welcome taking its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and according to rules set for all . the bigger political choices , however , will be for china to make .
in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered some sort of interpersonal contagion . a bubble form when rates of contagion goes up for the ideas it promotes a bubble . but rates of contagion depend , which are difficult to judge . large speculative bubbles , in my view , are social epidemics , fostered some kind of interpersonal contagion . ( little bubbles , in pricing , say , individual stocks happen all along and do not qualify as an answer to this question . )
the past half-century has shown that , while development is possible , it is not inevitable . the great communist experiment is practically the end of ( save for some holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . the right ’s ideology , as represented by the washington consensus of neoliberal , market fundamentalism , has not been much more successful , even though its failures often go unacknowledged . socialism had its day in court , and was found wanting . the last half-century demonstrated that , while development was possible , things were not inevitable .
microtargeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting completely . second , with intra-eu migration having surged , there are now almost 15 million europeans residing in eu countries other than up to their own . microtargeting has proven most effective not to win over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting altogether . as populists well know , they are notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to the difficulties registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and overly complex absentee-voting procedures . by picking or even paying large voter data sets , campaigns can segment the electorate into strategic clusters that use complicated algorithms , and then deliver personalized online content to the most susceptible us voters .
at the same time , the rest of the world may well be reluctant to build up claims against china – at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve-currency status . even if the chinese authorities do manage to achieve full convertibility and tradability to keep the renminbi in check , there is no guarantee that it would actually become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not easy to establish . though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the us dollar since world war ii , often providing a better store of value trading that is less prone to disinflation , none has made lasting inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . indeed , over three centuries of globalization , only three “ currencies ” have dominated : gold , the british pound , and the american dollar . it is also quite perhaps a crash : global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well-established , and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination .
in contemplating which the lessons of germany ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what government can and remains the responsibilities of business , workers , and society at large . the turnaround in germany ’s public finances was due mostly to spending cuts . germany ran a fiscal deficit of close to 4 % of gdp in 2003 , perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average over the time . the one area where the government plainly takes charge is public finance . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries are running deficits that are larger than germany ’s ten years ago .
and if we can no longer count on laboratory experiments to test causality , we must test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . to see how things are working in reality , we must construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to attempt new ways of doing things ( to be blunt , to act like guinea ) . this involves moving beyond a closed-minded , question-and-response process that is typical of a laboratory and applied our ideas in societies , earlier and more frequently than ever before . an example of such a living laboratory is the “ open data town , ” ” ” ” ” ” which i launched with the cities of trento in italy , alongside telecoms italia , telefónica , columbia university ’s fondazione bruno kessler , the institute of data-driven design , and local corporations . significantly , this living lab has the consent and informed consent of all involved ; it understands that they participate in a gigantic experiment , whose purpose is to devise a better path of living .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , the fact is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . because the eu lacks an military or central secret service , it must use economic policies to achieve its geopolitical aims . but the manner in which european political toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad .
canberra – the trade-offs are an intrinsic part of life , if not least because we make sense of it . to rehabilitate the roof , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . canberra – the trade-offs are an inherent feature of life . we all recognize this from our private budgets , and this has never been able to solve them . when we dispose of cheaper wine , we can splurge dessert .
london – the british election called by prime minister theresa may ’s government for june 8 will transform the outlook for britain ’s policies and relations with europe , but not necessarily in ways that vastly increased a majority for may ’s conservative party might appear to have reveal . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still snatch victory from the jaws of defeat for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british general election , may had effectively extended the brexit deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from may ’s 2019 election announcement . but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately result in an even sharper reversal , such as napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after wrecking all opposition in western europe . a scorched-earth defeat declared by conservative euroskeptics to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by daily mail on may ’s electoral announcement : crush saboteurs .
it is more than strange to argue that the rest of the world has to deal with a built-in benefit to china ’s own exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with ongoing change . from east to west , politics seems to operate in such a way as a diplomatic , suboptimal . then again , perhaps we are fortunate that matters are not the worse . no wonder , of course , that an impressive premier is thought to favor some of political loosening . elsewhere , of course , this type of turmoil has liberal-democratic safety valves .
based on this vision , the eu had a nation-state to lose and a continent in order to gain . yet some recent electoral results imply that there is greater fear of losing a nation-state . princeton – the biggest unresolved issue for the european union – is upward mobility . the integration process was intended to make it easier and more attractive to europeans to move from one country to another . ever since the united kingdom ’s single act of 1986 removed restrictions on working in other eu member countries , the continent has been the single labor market – at least theoretically .
a better alternative would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have bigger say . a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have bigger say . common political institutions accountable to voters across europe would provide a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb and help cage german power . but rising animosity among the eurozone member states , and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries , means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . with the no-bailout rule re-established , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and respond to voters ’ changing priorities .
bogotá – bogota , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is just as necessary as it is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g-20 became the primary forum to agree on fundamental principles in areas like its fiscal-policy response and the international monetary fund ’s role . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also imposed some pressure on governments concerned about what was not to do . lately , however , as the g20 has struggled to reconcile disparate national economic interests and retooling strategies , it was far less successful relative to its initial meetings in washington and london in 2009 . in these respects , the g20 was clearly a step forward .
cambridge – back in august , the us business roundtable , which comprises leading executives of america ’s largest companies , with the combined annual revenues of over $ 7 trillion – updated its long-standing statement regarding corporate purpose . it ’s ’s not just shareholders , ceos say ; their firms must be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . and the statement ’s principal author , in his seeming exhilaration , reports that he felt like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . in reality , us shareholders entered the final meeting of ceos ’ new listing business . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , the neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which is repressed by acute and chronic stress , is elevated to many antidepressant therapies . still , one of the problems with many current local medications is that , even with treatment , a recurrence of the major depression is very high – about 70-80 % . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also be leading to structural changes in our brain – are not being completely arrested , and why a new generation of anti-depressant medications is urgently needed . lithium , a mood stabilizer , and the neuroprotective agent , have the characteristics that we seek , though its toxicity make less than ideal . if they do , novel antidepressants might need to target what appears to be progressive , neurodegenerative changes in our brains that we infer from each other , because the recurrence of depressive illness is so high within the contemporary available therapies .
stanley sue , a professor of female psychology at the university of california , davis , has made a case study of suicide , which is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . in my belief , he believes that family pressure is a significant factor . tiger parenting is intended to get children to the greatest of what abilities they have , and so seems to lean toward the “ smart ” ” ” side of the “ smart or happy choice . ” he believes that family pressure is a significant factor , and that the only way to do that is through hard work . that is also the view of betty ’s ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua are the reason why asian-americans like me are in therapy . ”
in some cases , individuals like venezuela ’s president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy ’s former prime minister silvio berlusconi could be added to the list . the list tells us two things , half of that number tells us . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have managed to come to power in recent years . in some cases , individuals like venezuela ’s president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s former prime minister silvio berlusconi . tend to enter the political scene from france but manage to form a highly personalized grouping akin to jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia .
families have fewer and fewer children , and greater numbers of them are born beyond wedlock . fewer and fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , and a marriage is seen as less and less as a lifelong union . after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , though without an acute feeling that i was striking a blowback from freedom . there is an obvious status benefit to the minority ; no apparent harm is being done to the majority ; and the longer-term consequences are unfathomable . thus , one of the “ unintended consequences ” bill might be to add welcome recruits to married ranks , even though those recruits are of a historically unusual sort .
setting the right example is just another critical form of leaders ’ communication . in the wake of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily lowered their salaries as a means of communicating concern to their workers and public opinion . ronald reagan was a master of the well chosen anecdote . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved once again a talented communicator . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised the salaries of its government bureaucrats in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo the upstart raise .
london – current antibiotics have become increasingly ineffective , not only at fighting common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary infections , but also in treating a wide variety of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that now risks becoming incurable . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already have been lost . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already have been lost . with the g-7 leaders committed in a recent joint declaration on how to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , the time is ripe for the more inclusive g-20 to act , and china , as it chairs the pittsburgh group , to take its next level of fight . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality or their countries ’ level of development . indeed , by 2050 , ten million more people might die as the result of amr , up from about 700,000 today , with china and india each living housing amounting to some one million sufferers .
sydney – the appointment of the next five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december is a reminder that the ascension of china ’s next generation of leaders to assume power in 2012 may be the most significant development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . all five appointees i was born after the founding of the people ’s republic of 1949 . two of them , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are just over 46 years old . forgetting that history might doom china to repeat past errors ; but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and set its leaders free . after all , the upcoming generation of leaders is likely to be the first with little or no deep memory of the turmoil and hardship endured during the period of mao zedong .
in this set of possible outcomes , one point stands out : the insecurity of europe ’s role in the future global system . to avoid inexorable decline , europe must reach out to the clear decisions on three fundamental issues . for example , cyber superbug destroys networks upon which our ways of life became dependent , leading to economic , demographic , and ecological collapse . finally , there is the irish scenario of chaos . first , eu leaders must determine how to settle europe ’s crises .
the american dollar is a safe-haven currency , but savers in need of liquidity still lacking an impartial lender of last resort . if it is not , why should asia ’s net lenders , particularly china , continue to hold funding speculation against itself ? past experience has taught china the real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is via painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluation . but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) coupled with negative real interest rates caused financial institutions ’ equity prices to plummet , leading to another pro-cyclical ruin of value through price deflation , growing illiquidity and a crowded exits . the question is whether america and other carbon-trading countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which the five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark .
at the same time , however , real life is both traumatic and limited . homes are riddled with bullet divides . we saw buildings – not only the former hamas headquarters – still in rubble . and a nice traffic deal – with new cars being smuggled through tunnels beneath the “ philadelphi route ” – run by runs along the egyptian border . with or without electricity at just eight hours per day , we now have no electricity at all .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade to come . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and because of it may fail to confront the latest economic menace – global deflation . many central bankers are like the proverbial general who ploys it to fight the last war . like brazil , china and hong kong have seen prices rebound recently as a result . but , unlike recurrent brazil ’s military strategy , flawed monetary policies produce unavoidable damage , not just worrisome risks .
extraterritorial sanctions are a second way that america could kill the jcpoa . the first would be to foment war there ; in the first place , the us would be a second way to foment war . even if america is now absents on its way out of the jcpoa , it has only two means to block the implementation of an agreement between iran and the outside world . the world must steadfastly resist another ruinous american military adventure . this is unambiguously on the american agenda , in particular with the neoconservative doyen , john bolton back at the white house as the national security adviser .
it was probably in response to this impasse , which china has pressed ahead with establishing the aiib . critics of america ’s policy point out that , even if america thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project strength in asia and around the rest of the world , on one path or another . a strategy of containment worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but that can not be the case today without flexibility and strategic common purpose . channeling that influence via a newly-created international organization , they argue , tends to temper the raw power grabs . the size of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – is a fact that one can not be wished away .
tel aviv – america ’s president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs , without genuinely saying something here at all . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and casualties – a worldview exemplified by his declaration that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances . trump is a businessman , not a statesmanlike figure . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that , when his approach becomes clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to that narrow-minded , an isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good .
global multinational companies are the largest business-sector r & d r & d r & d investors in the us and other countries . in 2009 , us business accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies are the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , expenditure more than twice that of japanese firms . and american multinational companies still locate about 84 % of their r & d operations in the us , often in innovation clusters around us research universities . in 2009 , us business accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies are by far the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , expenditure more than twice that of japanese firms . but business investment as a share of gdp has changed very little in the us over the past decade , while it rose rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % – according to official statistics . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at about 70 % , when measured by the labor-force participation rate whose income is derived mainly from non-farm activities . but it remains unsatisfactory , given that most other countries at a similar stage of development experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . given that the share of urban dwellers living in just over 18 years ago was just over 30 years ago , this is notable advances . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities – large and tiny , lack of sign of significant urban poverty or “ slums . ”
today , iraq may be on the brink of a civil war between shi’ites and sunnis . implementing democracy , with or without regime change , has been the only alternative to mayhem and the rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the brink of a civil war between shi’ites and sunnis . iran under a new and more radical president is rallying irresistibly toward possessing a civilian nuclear capacity . a free electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , and the unhappy episode in the danish narrative cartoons illustrated the near-combustible character of relations between islam and the west .
the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic influence , because things have begun to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over to his presidency to his brother , raúl . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula have little inclination to let chávez lead in the way . calderón ’s uncompromising hard line on drug traffickers in mexico , an unrelenting offensive that followed uribe ’s precedent set in dealing with the farc , has also been helped because economic growth has subdued domestic opposition . that made it easy for lula mainly to buck his socialist allies and the distance himself from chávez – indeed , as was march 2008 backed by chávez in ecuador , which killed farc leader wang reyes . last january , lula visited israel with a string of prominent brazilian entrepreneurs and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion .
the first act began in august 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by rejecting to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine entered a customs union with russia , in exchange for a stockpile of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin seems to have attained his own political purpose , namely the deployment of ukraine , which has been drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s very sphere of influence . before our eyes , a tragedy in a few deeds tends to unfold , in which both the players and their objectives are obvious . what is not known is how much further acts this sad spectacle will actually have , and thus when – and how – it ends .
in scope , these constraints can vary from global to plurilateral , toward the bilateral system . to be sure , most experts agree that the treaty of cyberspace would have been politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals at the un ) . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also involve codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and broadly shared expectations of due process among a group ( which create common laws ) . while the number of participants has increased from the original 15 to 25 , most countries have no vote . but there is an even greater question lurching across the gge : can norms really restrict state behavior ?
such considerations should guide the choices about what comes after the european stability pact . to be sure , monetary policy , too , has redistributive effects . nevertheless , monetary policy is the much more clumsy , indirect , and imprecise way of selecting the winners and losers than fiscal policy . think again about the various implications of interest rates on borrowers versus lenders . independent central banks may occasionally be hurting politicians , but at least they may be captured as scapegoats when necessary-a role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over useful tools .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and the money supply would grow more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity re-entry approaches equity and real-estate markets . true , china ’s subprime housing prices were skyrocketing in recent months . the government was overly generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and , overwhelmed by fears of the adverse impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , was over-cautious in its handling of bubbles when they re-emerged . so low interest rates and unfavorable interference , rather than private-sector demand , fueled explosive credit growth during the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target . unlike in the us , china experienced no liquidity shortages and credit bubbles during the global financial crisis .
erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also since expanded into the educational system , with the deployment of a markedly religious curriculum . now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey for eu membership ” would further curb the military ’s ’s ’s role as the guardian of a secular state and strengthen governmental control of the judiciary . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made following the publication of an arabic obligatory in polish schools . erdogan believes that by exercising turkey ’s arab mediation capacity , he is recovering the burden of his ottoman forbears as peace and security guarantors in the mashreq . the more symbolic blowback from ataturk ’s vision is hard to imagine .
he remained skeptical of the notions of irreversible progress . change for the better could emerge only from practical initiatives , and not from sunday ’s speeches . thus , european integration had to be forged by real policies and eu institutions , not by realignment . thus , both he and giscard forged the european council ( composed of heads of european governments ) , which is now a major player in the european institutional set-up . they pushed forward the notion of monetary integration that came to fruition a generation later .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , the fact is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . while the probability that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted could create the impression of another constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize as soon as a period for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship extends again from a new , very soft , april 12 deadline until the end of the year or beyond . for britain , the prospects are suddenly far clearer and better than they were at any time since june 2016 .
after iranians no , ” ” can the union find salvation in nato ’s conception of a “ coalition of the willing ? ” to be sure , iran ’s “ no ” is not the equivalent of the eu ’s what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a major setback and challenge to its institutional , political , or even psychological nature . it no longer dreams of becoming the united states of europe , ” ” ” ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ the united nations ” has remained overly ambivalent , if not deliberately ambiguous , to become efficient . can the most resolute pro-integration europeans abandon the pack , without being paralyzed by an unwilling coalition ?
indeed , terrorism is , and will continue to be one of this era ’s scourges . indeed , terrorism is , and will continue to be one of that era ’s scourges . the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and elsewhere in the world may begin to diminish dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what is demanded , too , is a dose of realism . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war ; it is no longer the only one . we can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon because it is , like a web and a de facto state that controls borders and resources .
failing that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . mexico ’s economy has now performed well for a few years ; not the very hard part that will have given america next door , and the great liquidity in global capital markets . mexico ’s own skillful success in rebuilding opec ( reducing the value of its petroleum exports ) has contributed to good performance , as has the determination to hang on and even widen the reforms of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , president salinas . meanwhile , however , the currency board will help to kick-start financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms that have been starved of capital through the experiences of recurrent crises and bad credit . the small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism ; they can not .
it demands a sense of the social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernizing political process . it is in part self-defense , an assertion of the rule of law under difficult circumstances , and in part a constructive effort to correct the causes of frustration . finally , such help will yield no more than immediate results , but western awareness – which implies readiness to confront it by delaying even immediate gratification – is also a sign of the liberal order . as a result , fighting al qaeda is not really a war ; it is also a necessity for al qaeda . people who are suspended between its vanished past and its future have yet to gain the support .
these are groups that have been criticized by the obama administration and others for their inability to present a united front , to formulate a credible agenda , or to be perceived as a viable alternative to the current one . groups like the syrian national council are loose association of individual and group associations , many of them outside of syria . but these groups have limited influence within local opposition groups inside syria , which are equally diverse and divided . fear of another islamist takeover is the second main argument against overthrowing assad , but the longer it remains in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground . it is caught between these groups that the radical islamists have gained a foothold .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , making it possible by imprisoning regulators ’ hearts and minds , and by politicians on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow private-sector elite – mostly on wall street – almost all the upside to the us housing boom . but this was not the case for over-regulating and over-reaching . in the us , these people were not driven by the crisis , either . but they are now paying for it . after all , the downside has been shoved up to the rest of society , particularly the relatively uneducated and underserved , who are now losing their houses , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or , indeed , all above . at the same time , these people did not bring the crisis to a head .
yet the unemployment rate stands at roughly 11 % , with record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has generated large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of its small , medium-size firms . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in extravagant rhetorical battles over minor controversies . the us unemployment rate stands at roughly 11 % , with record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . at the same time , the political crisis is eroding the government , pursuing difficult reforms .
escaping abject destitution , though an important milestone , is not the same thing as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic safety . mumbai – as india gears for its general election next month – has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally being shunted aside in retreat . but it is past time that india continues to inspire its aspirations . to that end , there remains a lot to be done . in 2012 , two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening up the economy , the official poverty rate topped 22 % , below half the rate when it was introduced in 1994 .
at the same time , south korean policymakers must avoid falling over this intensifying war rhetoric . yet , far from making the space for us diplomacy behind , trump ’s advisors sebastian gorka recently told the press that it is , the notion that us secretary of state rex tillerson is publicly talking about military issues is simply nonsensical ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . unless that changes soon , the us might , as then-british prime minister david cameron wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle ] ... until now has come up again . ” once the march toward war had already begun , there was little room left for diplomacy . but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat have significant leverage over military matters ?
likewise , alemán , he faces a rebellion in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in the party of the liberal wing . the entrepreneurial interest that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : is it preferable to align itself with a plc dominated by a corrupt , alemán , or to back out a new , democratic force , at risk of helping ortega win ? while a three-way race is pure speculation on this point at the moment , it can be made clear that he offers ortega the best of all electoral worlds . it is so tempting that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , bet that freeing him will serve his own geopolitical interests . if alemán drives montealegre a candidacy in the plc , and he pushes him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances to win the presidency sharply .
but , while for keynes , the key was to keeping the sum of government expenditures and private investment stable , for friedman , the key was to keeping money in the money supply – the quantity of purchasing power in readily spendable hands of companies and households -- in a stable way . a relatively minor , technical difference of the means , one might say , would be applicable . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management is necessary – that a private economy on its own might well be susceptible to unbearable instability ­and that strategic , powerful but constrained by government economic intervention was necessary for maintaining stability . a relatively minor , technical difference of means , one might argue , you could say . and you would have been half right .
the fourth of these channels , exchange rates , has already worked . the euro is down 8 % against the dollar since the first half of the year , and the yen is down 14 % . the result has been appreciation of the dollar against the euro and the yen . the prospect of america 's monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . but with speculators looking ahead and pulling out of commodities today in anticipation of a future higher real interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been a further decline in ’s price drop forward to today .
i was also aware that the un human rights council had made repeated condemnations of israel over the last two years , but had shifted little attention to large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . i am aware that goldstone , an devoted and unimpeachable human rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he initially moved . i am also aware that goldstone , an devoted and unimpeachable human rights lawyer , and advocate , shared similar concerns when he initially moved . but he managed to work with the council ’s president to securing an agreement that he felt confidence to enable the mandate to be interpreted in such a way as enabling his team to come together to address the actions that caused both parties to conflict . this pattern of action and inaction by the council gave greater credence to those who share the view that the un supreme human rights body is inherently anti-israel .
during the early cold war , communism and the former soviet union enjoyed considerable soft power . yet soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin ’s own crimes in 1956 , followed by the repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia , czechoslovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . while in theory communism aimed at establishing a system of class justice , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic powers through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , broad censorship , and ubiquitous informants . the net effect of these brutal measures was a widespread loss of faith . many communists led the resistance against fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was the waves of the future .
coronado , california – most people think of charles darwin as a psychologist . in fact , its work has revolutionized the field . before darwin , the philosophical speculation had shaped our psychological understanding of the nature of human beings . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbesian , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could only describe current mental events and level behaviors ; historically , they could not account for their causes . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution has influenced the shape of our thinking as strongly as it has the shape of our bodies .
indeed , evaluating the impact of any research project is difficult , to say the least . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , points out in a thoughtful editorial in the journal science , “ “ one can only recognize good science as it happens , but significant science can only be taken into consideration in rear-view mirror . ” indeed , evaluating the impact of any research project is notoriously difficult . when salvador josé luis rodríguez zapatero , my university microbiology professor at the university of medicine , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , she made the point eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon to provide just about everyone to know him on a award . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table .
it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing almost all gdp gains over the last quarter-century . the american tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that he was wrong to have paid a lower tax rate than his secretary . and , when fully implemented ( in 2027 ) , he will raise taxes on most americans in the middle ( by the second , third , and by fourth both accounts ) . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive .
a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be classified as autonomous contractors , or as employees of platform companies with which to have employment contracts , and for whose customers they deliver services . california , the american state with more than two million independent contractors , has been working to address this question with a new law , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies legitimate criteria for deciding how to define categorize workers . to win the political support of ab5 ’s passage , the lawmakers exempted many types of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents – on grounds that they establish their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . applying the three-part “ abc test ” test ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker is qualified for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it significantly more difficult for firms to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than workers . but ab5 obscures the more than 400,000 workers that drive for platform companies like ride-sharing services , uber and lyft , and the food-service firm doordash .
making matters worse , the modi government has invoked section 7 of the rbi act , which enables it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on matters of the public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths to suggest that more than the interest rates are at stake . such measures constrain state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients . to be sure , government ministers can not come proper and say that . after all , the government is especially unhappy with the rbi measures to monetize india ’s banks , many of them burdened by an extensive volume of non-performing assets and avoid the risks of constructing some other parts of the financial system .
it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he set a bold , economic-reform agenda and pledged to boost japan ’s global influence . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy if he had put forward . yet , after more than two decades of leaders , who , apart from junichiro koizumi ’s man ’s promise to achieve little and achieve less , japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe would follow through on his own pledges . as any democratic politician sets out to be exposed , disappointed expectations may well result in the toughest electoral adversary of all . abe , of course , did not face the type of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , to be sure , us president barack obama did .
those individuals who carry at least one copy of the gene variant that does not allow the body to metabolize plavix have a higher risk of clotting clotting the stent . this genomic variation is an exceptionally common pattern , present in 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and higher than 50 % of asian ancestry . those individuals carrying at least one copy of the gene variant that does not enable the body to metabolize plavix have a higher risk of clotting the stent . the narrative interferon ’s narrative , given one year to patients with hepatitis c virus , is especially striking . in many such patients , doubling plavix rates , and screening platelets function with point-of-care testing to assure suppression , can override the under-response .
the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt well beyond a country ’s borders . after all , war , in colombia , and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while peace divides them . so , too , west africa would be disaffected , having become a central transit point for south american drugs headed to europe . the repercussions would be felt equally in mexico , where drug cartels be tearing apart , along with america , the world ’s largest demand source . if chávez ’s containment of venezuela became a narco-state , in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relationships with the farc .
the key , though , is that the budget does not rely simply on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . at its heart is the recognition that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investments focused on the poorest . rapid economic growth is meant to lay the groundwork for the private sector , including foreign direct investment . thus , the budget has been promoting critical areas of market-based and growth promotion , including measures to enhance the financial sector , promote exports , and liberalizing inward foreign direct investment . the second pillar of poverty reduction is targeted investment for the poor , especially for the rural poor .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism while blurring the threat of right-wing populism itself , might well play a direct part in russian president vladimir putin ’s own hands . in the middle east , countries are seeking to figure out who should be contained . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . a struggle to prioritize the threat is not exclusive to the west . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is a decidedly iran .
cambridge – america ’s treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . after all , the trump administration has made it quite clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . but , even on the international scene , where american treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to get a hard time . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are only a forum for making unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who like his boss – persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms , such as open trade , is in everyone ’s interest ? domestically , he stuck between the promises he made ( like mnuchin ’s rule ” that taxes should not be slashed for the wealthy ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan covers cuts for the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) .
cambridge – how should one interpret the agreement reached in paris later this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the discussions erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not commit firmly to limiting global warming to 1.5 º fahrenheit above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . yet such a commitment would not have been credible . what emerged in paris was actually better , for the negotiators themselves to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , began to move into ghettos . as a result , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school for the first time . regrettably , they have been educated in the religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , started moving into ghettos . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , started moving into areas of social life at the hands of the state ’s failed state , particularly education .
today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than do state-owned firms ( soes ) . with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ a large share of the proletariat , producing goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , for their superior performance , safeguard proletarian savers ’ interests by actually paying back their bank loans . by contrast , the government can not bail out unemployed workers of their pensions , because socialism has bankrupted its finance . why most pundits miss out , not only in the protests against workers , not in the liberal provinces of zhejiang and guangdong , but in the northeastern socialist bastions , is a mystery . workers do not protest menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou , but against no-job creation in the socialist shenyang .
the average winning margin among the top eight national teams has steadily decreased , from more than two goals in 1950 to roughly 1.5 goals in the 1960s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , to just 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . but , while we see inequality and club-level football exclusion , the opposite is true of competitions between national teams . poorer or smaller countries can scarcely dream of a successful european championship , as kosoa ( romania ) , a red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third partition ) once did . the decrease in winning margins is all the more impressive , because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – a number that is new and rather uneducated . the same is true of all the games played at the final world tournament , not only those among the top eight national teams . the average winning margin is all the more impressive , because the world cup has grown from just 16 to 32 national teams .
with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , an pegged increase in us long-term growth , like that of the administration , would have been historically anomalous . furthermore , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost completely . in a omb paper , the real interest rate on three-month treasuries is expected to remain below 1 % for a decade or more . in reality , the budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the black-chip one in which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along at about 2 % . at present , industrialized treasuries offer more than triple the yield on three-month treasuries .
this outcome would accelerate if , as is likely , berlusconi himself were to distance himself from politics in his upcoming electoral term . but that antagonism reflected the personalization of the policy achieved by berlusconi , just as an institutional feature that he rescinded . one of his administration ’s last acts was to replace the majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 , with proportional rule . under new electoral rules , seats are allotted to parties in proportion to the vote , but specialized induces parties to forge a pre-electoral deal : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the largest votes awarded a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of the deputies ( the lower house ) . a new electoral system transforms policymakers ’ motivations and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments .
while the current rate of 7 % is comfortable , it is far below the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . and it has had some success – to the detriment of economic growth . nonetheless , there is more to the assessment of wen of the stimulus than of the “ growth/reform trade-off ” . given the need for more economic restructuring – and given long-term demographic trends to reduce the labor supply – pre-2008 growth rates are unlikely to be restored . this is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading , not an unsustainable credit-led growth model , is the key to achieving high-income status .
the climate challenge demands a much deeper public-private collaboration to boost green investment . big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be stricken with a changing climate . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased impact of climate change , and to develop clearer global standards for disruption of the climate risks that investment projects pose . for example , how will a city cope with increased flood risk now and how will farmland must be maintained productively as droughts grow more severe ? here , public investment institutions like the european investment bank can help adapt in myriad ways .
the speaker was no some sort of public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri , was . terrorists skillfully adapted to fighting wars in today ’s media age , but for most of america and the governments of the other ’s democracies , they were not . “ over half of that battle takes place on the media battlefield ; [ for all the us is in a media battle in a race to the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] people . ” they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks , using each form of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of individual people . consider that violent extremists have their own “ media relationships committees ” aimed at manipulating elite sentiment .
recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civil-rights tort and human-rights abuses before american courts show just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those who have acted negligently , or with impunity . of course , exemplary and punitive damages intended to discourage behavior inimical to a society would exist on the statute books . but the philippine courts have refused to resort to extra-judicial exploitation of such damage awards as an instrument for controlling behavior , especially by businessmen . simply put , the philippine courts have not made it sufficiently costly to maintain non-seaworthy vessels . of course , exemplary and punitive damages to discourage behavior inimical to a company go to business operations , despite its many lapses .
and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who is now chairs the pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany has acted more like an “ occupation officer ” than he is like the eu diplomat . yet , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty are adding momentum to his new push for european political unification . consider the legislation that allows the trump administration to impose trade sanctions on european firms that take up the project , even though such companies have been contractually obliged to see work through . all told , the trump administration ’s distortionary behavior has left french and german governments angry . it is no secret that europeans are in the midst of an internal economic crisis , led by france , which is saddling southern eurozone countries with a high rate of inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash , which severely limited their competitiveness within the eu .
all have abolished controls at their shared borders , and have adopted a common visa policy for non-member citizens . and it is undoubtedly convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona , without having to wait in line at every border one cross . indeed , this convenience is probably why just two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – that is , namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu territory without border controls . to be sure , it is handy to treat a flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic route , with no passport controls to contend with departure and arriving .
yet europe has focused far more on enforcing shared values in the tech sector – namely , through stronger data-privacy regulation , than it has on developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . such cooperation has been vital to combating terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . defining such a strategy could help europe to identify areas for mutual accommodation . europeans have become addicted to such corporations , all based in either china or america . a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states .
the federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has been allocating hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of crucially important smaller institution-building to go bankrupt . just adding liquidity while pursuing current austerity policies will not reignite the spanish economy . but lending would still be inhibited , even if the banks were becoming healthier . after all , small enterprises have been relying on collateral-based lending , with the value of property – the main form of collateral – still down one-third from their pre-crisis level . so , too , in the us , smaller banks , which largely fund small and medium-size firms , were all but neglected .
the world had learned that the lesson following the 1973 arab-israel war . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the u.s. and netherlands to punish them for their support of israel . when the dust settled , it became apparent that america , the dutch , and other importers all had suffered roughly the same level of deficit and had paid for the same damaging high price . oil was a fungible commodity , and the markets were clear at the same time that the us was accusing the united kingdom of being killed by its own price . but import-destined for the u.s. and netherlands shifted to other countries , such as japan , while crude oil destined for other countries found a way out of the us and the netherlands .
new york – with graphic images of myanmar ’s military junta , the world has rattled graphic images of graphic pictures of the latest crackdown by myanmar ’s military junta . but the bullets and clubs being unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . that crackdown continues under the cover of darkness . the monks have retreated , and oppressive normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal urban and former capital . when the sun set in myanmar , the fear is rising , too .
the underlying issue is whether european monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can uphold the current approach , founded on domestic responsibility and sanctions on those who break up the rules . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the turkish government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests accounted for much of the rest of the country ’s economic weakness . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , for his part , has suggested that such sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone , something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . nor , obviously , was it ever envisaged that greece would face its current economic trauma . admittedly , the country ’s post-war economic performance was a poor country , marked by a period of slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , huge fiscal deficits , rising debt , a collapsing currency , and insufficient infrastructure .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , general electric , long-distance communication , modern information processing , and the like . in thought of the future of growth , and the opportunities that continued growth would open up for all of mankind , we should reflect on just how far we had arrived . in the late roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat could buy a nomenclator – a slain tasked with memorizing names and face , and a reminding of the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a basic smartphone is better than possessing the entourage of a dozen or even thousands , of nomenclator-like aides . again , it would be ludicrously expensive – or simply impossible – to achieve similar capabilities in earlier periods in history .
insofar as this is true , the united states will n’t be replaced as a dominant power , unless and until it copes that role . vital interests guiding china ’s foreign policy are an internal modernizing society , a ruling regime embedded in political stability and survival , and a country ’s own unity ( comprising taiwan ) . that may sound straightforward , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s emerging international order . these interests , after all , are unlikely to change until it is needed . as a result , china will become the predominantly inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for this reason – will pursue its foreign-policy interests in an totally unsentimental way .
the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s crisis set the stage for a variety of large exchange-rate adjustments . the us dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , soared sharply in value . wages and prices were falling , but not enough to allow argentina to compete efficiently , especially given that the many agricultural goods that constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantage faces high hurdles in entering rich countries ’ markets . in the meantime , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , did not see its currency depreciate – some would say that it had become vastly undervalued . the us government pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough to make up for the vagaries of the market .
making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions , while spurring state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stockpiles . yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lessons of either episode . not only did they fail to mitigate risk , underscored in the wake of the meltdown in 2007 , that new retail investors introduce in the us market ; indeed , they have exacerbated them , by enabling , and even spurring , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks . yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lessons of either episode .
new york – seventy years ago this month , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . it is a shock , not a response , that spreads . faced with that uncertainty , they are not readjust their expenditures ; instead , they disabstain from spending until a mists ement , posting the economy into a tailspin . yet it is a shock , not a adjustments to the system , that spreads throughout the system . with shocks to a system occurring , agents are not aware of what is happening next .
besides , well-designed financial-sector taxes might help to mitigate the problems generated by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , especially in the advanced industrial countries with aging populations , should worry about the sustainability of their policies . america ’s finance industry has polluted the world with toxic mortgages ; and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes should be imposed on it . taxes on speculative activity could provide an encouraging focus on banks to turn more attention to performing their crucial societal role as lending . the financial sector has imposed vast externalities on the rest of society .
attitudes toward risks change over time , and events like those of ahmadinejad and peres ’s remarks may precipitate such changes . so , while such things happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as meticulously as they are to those of bernanke in trying to grasp the direction of the world ’s stock markets . but public reactions to them , together with the recent collapse of oil price , may well reflect a good measure of changing market psychology . indeed , economists may be uncomfortable with focusing on public thinking and ways that interacts with price changes , world news stories , and its impact on speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and more omniscient ) than they are to imagine .
new york – in their efforts to pass the bailout plan for america ’s financial system , bush ’s administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . the bonfire sparked the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 . but , for most asians , an economic armageddon is far more common . contagion soon spread throughout east asia , with the ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil . the asian financial crisis of just a decade ago brought banks , corporations , and governments to their knees .
of course , plato ’s purpose in the context of dialogue is not to define piety : if socrates is aware of a better definition than the non-unacceptable being offered by euthyphro , it will not discover it . and to know that , one must be as if it were to be realized , one does not know as from what one does . one ought to be familiar with the moral features of any of the action one is contemplating . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his inherent ignorance about piety , and that euthyphro thus can not really learn that prosecuting his father is actually the correct thing to do . the knowledge that comes out of that kind of self-examination is crucial in all decision-making .
one billion people globally lack access to clean water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . in northern africa , the encroaching desert has displaced many more people , exacerbating tensions between farmers and rural herders . in addition , water scarcity means food scarcity , which leads to water scarcity . this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of hectares of farmland and creating power shortages . after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with more water in the short supply , farmers are less able to lift the world ’s urban population .
recognizing this imperative is the first step . emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping changes to policies , incentives , and established productivity-enhancing practices . the era of wasteful “ ease ” gdp growth , powered by the massive army of young workers , is ending . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d has enabled the brazilian agriculture policy research corporation to pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects , including designs for tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . efficiency soared , marketing brazil ’s crop yields to par excellence with those of advanced economies .
second , we need a clear message from the g-20 that all of its members are delivering policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . since the g-20 ’s cannes meeting last november , for example , europe has raised its fiscal firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , have established rules governing fiscal discipline , and implemented a massive array of labor – and product-market reforms . to be meaningful , the message must be backed by action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and that they will be in violation of their commitments fully accountable to meeting their commitments . yet the sheer magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies the urgent need for far more decisive reforms . we have confidence that europe will work together to meet these challenges together , by continuing to foster such efforts , for example , because european stability and growth matter for us all .
they must work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized , lest they end up as anything less than a multiple . whenever we prioritize , we say not only where we ought to do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not increase our efforts ( which we regard as cynical ) . but not speaking of priorities makes the need to prioritize . instead , the choices become only less clear , less democratic , and less efficient . refusing to prioritize , deals specifically with one ’s most publicized troubles is misguided .
the point is not to be lost on endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but underscore that it is possible – and potentially even necessary – to have meaningful discussion of inequality , based on tangible figures , with the goal of establishing clear-cut goals . this is true in most countries – including the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world – although there are a few countries , like norway , where people have a more realistic view . as it stands , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequalities are lower than they actually are , but still higher than the level they would consider ideal . correcting these misperceptions will transform people ’s views of redistributive policies . if choices are to be chosen , the debate must be better informed .
third , obama would emphasize for the chinese their stake in eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it has been the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable . ordinary russians should be made to understand that allowing putin – whose primary claim to guide his administration is that it put an end to the deceit penury of the first post-soviet years – that pursue its own brand of imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . in addition , those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy . similarly , denying any banks that do business with a russian bank or company access to america ’s financial system would create the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately following the collapse of communism .
against this backdrop , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector soared . the city of london , lower manhattan , and a few other types of centers became money machines that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private-equity folk immoderately wealthy . many financial firms shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some went out of business altogether . things were different over the past two years . university leaders like me spent a lot of our time persuading them to recycle part of their gains into their old schools .
in a february meeting , america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart about the news reports that china offered to pay kyrgyzstan ’s $ 3 billion payment if the kyrgyz removed a american base . “ conspicuously flustered ( the chinese ambassador ) had temporarily lost its ability to speak russian , and started spluttering in chinese to the silent aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” based on a confidential american diplomatic cable compiled by the web site wikileaks.org . in fact , the two us diplomats have been conversing in russia . the horse-trading surrounding the base has been intense . in fact , the policy has emboldened pro-russian politicians who would love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan . the two diplomats have been conversing in russia , for example .
then there is the moment when france is beginning to question its economic model , if at all . but , ultimately , the best way to tackle them , and thus to prevent their resurgence , is to ensure that economic opportunities are available to those determined to try . social assistance with little hope of individual improvement is not sufficient . in a recent statement on torching suburb , chirac has proclaimed : “ “ “ we will need to draw any lesson from this crisis when the time has come and order has been restored , together with a great deal of bravado and lucidity . ” but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever expected to envisage .
we can not , and should not , allow this for all , in our country . we now believe that they are faster than us in acquiring and processing our knowledge , because they have grown up through the tools and techniques we have lacked under our age . we have also learned from the hundreds of thousands of dead and tens of thousands of refugees inside our regions that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry merely fuels our fires of rage . we need study , teaching , and practice tolerance – and instill this out in our children , both through education and by singapore ’s own example . we entrust them with channeling our country toward a new level of growth and development that we now appoint a cabinet minister of their age and created a special youth council .
how will one tighten fiscal policy to ensure more than 100 % of gdp in creditinduced spending power in just three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004 , and in the democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , as ireland is ? we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates generate massive expansion of credit . in countries with higher price-growth rates than in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can produce nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to ask policymakers in france , who have large surpluses to raise taxes or slashed benefits or public-investment levels are sufficiently needed to stave off catastrophe strikes . to stem this flood of credit-fueled demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible and absurd to try .
undeniably , in the past , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would collectively press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . but the bottom line is that a constitutional shift can be made only through unanimity agreement , and a few eu member governments , starting with the united kingdom , would resist any overtly federalist agenda . as a result , the french government remains reluctant to force confrontations with the british , if there is one chance of a softer line of trade-offs in the future . today , however , france and germany are far less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration looks less robust . the problem is that this conspiracy of evasion may not work , and fischer ’s speech is that he is the first government minister in office to make a point of public disclosure , though he pretends to say it in a personal capacity .
in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made , for example , by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is strong . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting interire imperatives . markets for innovation and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help to address those failures of markets as they do . enthusiasts describe it as a new brand of modern industrial policies that can help to push brazil beyond its conventional role as a commodity exporter . critics refer to it as a misguided effort , which creates only more distortions and boomard growth .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . but evolutionary psychology , which stresses competition for females , may add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt again . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances in a particular place . but , while the problem can not be solved , ” understanding that it might help to limit harm , not least by enabling leaders to evade policies that are either not helpful or exacerbated by tensions . after all , those among native-born citizens with the lowest incomes and education levels will invariably be worse off if they had to compete with large numbers of adolescent male migrants .
judging by an ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . judging by an ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . while i published a 2014 book on the codependent american-chinese economic relationship , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalizing insights from human psychology to assessing the behavior of national economies . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis is all the more compelling now , as the world ’s two largest economies throw itself into a perilous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency takes on one of the extremes of relationship dynamics – when two partners draw more from one another than from their own internal power .
throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided with its raison d’être for the european union ; in an era of globalization , that is the american . comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . nonetheless , how is this european identity to be laid bare ? this is the point at which many begin to use language that defines europe by distinction , indeed , to america as an enemy of america . european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism – these are archaic topics .
in both episodes , america was in denial , bordering delusion . unfortunately , lighthizer seems just as clueless today ’s macro argument as it was back then . without an increase in national saving – highly unlikely under america ’s current budget-busting budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china to america ’s other major trade partners . ironically , trump has quashed similar robert lighthizer , veteran of japan ’s trade battles in the 1980s , to head the charge against china . with that deal-making likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers are hit with the functional equivalent of a tax hike .
french center-left leaders must take the lead in conceiving a vision for europe , in which solidarity and equity are mutually reinforcing . meanwhile , hollande ’s administration and prime minister jean-marc ayrault have powerful majorities at every executive and legislative level , giving it a rare opportunity to take action . if they can renew the european model at home , they will be able to project that success much more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in turn reinforcing trust and conviction in the eu , particularly among a young generation . finally , along with the united kingdom among the european countries , france retains more of a global role than germany has yet to gain . finally , along with the united kingdom among the european countries , france retains more of a global role than germany has yet to gain .
the third challenge , instrumental to convene the first two , will be to strengthen regional arab solidarity . at the same time , many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the “ arab world ’s arab world ” of the past . but the 2011 revolutions have demonstrated a collective sense of identity , collective language , and much shared history binds the arabs together , despite enormous disparities in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how else could one explain that the act of revolt in tunisia resulted in popular revolts , from north africa to the arabian peninsula ? deep reform – focused on quality and achievement , rather than on enrollment and diplomas – is needed to transform the education process and unleash the productivity growth that a young labor force demands .
attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift in american politics . on the face of it , who has the more flexible work done ? america ’s largest tech companies are starting to compete for talent by offering local paternity leave . attitudes about male caregiving are starting to shift . only about third of millennial men believe in their traditional gender roles .
muted wage growth boost competitiveness , and the underutilized labor and capital are under scrutiny . but it also depends on the government ’s capacity and willingness to provide bridging function for the weakness of aggregate demand and pursue reforms and investment that boost the long-term growth outlook . if public-sector deleveraging is not a complete growth policy – and it is not – – – why accounts for so much attention to fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) to growth and employment ? a few possibilities – rather than mutually exclusive – are becoming involved in thinking . how fast this will occur partly depends on the private sector ’s inherent flexibility and dynamism .
journalists report the tragic stories of middle-class americans ’ loss of jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk without some social protection . by contrast , when many individual americans ’ personal situations are screened through european eyes , the extreme individualism that represents a crucial component of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . it is wrong to suppose , as some ultra-loose marketers do , that the absence of social protection makes you stronger . journalists report the tragic stories of middle-class americans losing their jobs and houses , potentially putting their own lives at risk , without receiving any kind of social protection . it is telling to suppose , as some ultra-loose marketers do , that the absence of social protection makes you stronger .
warsaw : a recent poland experienced a typical -- and typically even unfinished -- political debate . focus was on whether a “ free ” education should be made a constitutional right . due to their dominance of the parliament , the postcommunists ’s intransigence on this point has forced the other political parties of participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution in order to kowtow to its own positions . a free , or as its postcommunist advocates prefer to call it , a " not paid for " education , means training in schools and state-controlled universities ( but not in private schools ) . only by raising the issue to the level of a constitutional right , say , the postcommunists , can the guarantee of a free and equal access to education .
at the same time , the private sector has a role to play in a shift toward unconventional water resources – a role that needs to expand beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater and wastewater . the sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation . governments must also clarify national water agencies ’ responsibilities and improve water-related capacities at all levels to institute large-scale non-conventional-water programs . best practices should be set , innovations identified and tested , and the knowledge and experience they are shared . last , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities must be mobilized – for example , through a public-campaign showcasing the advantages of undermining the potential of unconventional water sources .
america ’s negotiators , for their part , are fixated on targeted reductions of roughly $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-month timeframe . as a result , targeting china holds tremendous policy appeal . so , what could be made out of the may 19 deal ? beyond a truce of tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits . given the extent of america ’s multilateral problem , this has been largely an inconsequential objective , particularly given the massive and ill-timed tax cuts and federal expenditure increases that america has enacted over the past six months .
economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift , either . the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty was accompanied by widening income disparities , together with severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and rising middle class ; and those that have hitherto benefited from the region ’s rapid economic development – and whose own health and well-being is being adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at lower but increasingly enviable , tariffs – and enhanced quality . what asia needs is strong , inclusive , rapidly growing growth that means that rebalancing the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional demand .
berkeley – the central insight from macroeconomics stands out from john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large gap between supply and demand pretty much everywhere nowadays that is generated by goods and services , and of types of labor , if an equally large excess of demand in financial assets is involved . the normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of which today ’s commodities is not a serious problem , as it equates the excess demand in other currently produced commodities . because industries suffering from under-demand shed workers , industries benefiting from surplus demand hire them . the economy rapidly rebalances itself , and thus the returns to full employment – and that is just what a mix of employment and output that is better adapted to current consumer preferences . and this central fact is a source of huge trouble . as industries that are suffering from inadequate demand shed workers , industries benefiting from surplus demand hire .
outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov denounced the prosecutor , who appeared to be prepared to acquit ’s own patriotic “ hero ” on every remaining charges . finally , last month , putin ’s military prosecutor upheld colonel budanov ’s argument that he was being temporarily insane when killing a girl was killed , and so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . the prosecution then began speaking to a young girl as chechen sniper from the family of snipers . initially , russian liberals welcomed the case of budanov , intended to signal that the country might address accusations that war crimes were perpetrated in chechnya . ( the charges of rape were already dropped , for some unclear reason . )
the good news is that the incoming administration may be able to draw up the measures formulated during obama ’s tenure , but that has gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional us congressional politics that has characterized much of obama ’s eight years in office . a team has come to pass once , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – through necessity , not choice – has become excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the plan needs to recognize that , over this protracted period of monetary expansion , both through financial markets and resource-allocation effects , aggravated wealth inequalities . measures that address imperatives like infrastructure investment , taxation , and job creation . but , of course , america does not exist in a vacuum .
washington , dc – just over a hundred years ago , the united states was leading the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked , and when the power of such firms ought to be politicized . upon the post-1890 ’s , large businesses were widely thought to be more efficient , and in general more modern than small-business . in retrospect , the breakthrough legislation – not only for an american , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill to pass the american senate does something similar – and long overdue – for the banking system . what most people saw was the restoration of smaller firms altogether , big firms as a stability-enhancing development that rewarded achievement and allowed for additional productive investment .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down , writing a letter ? i do n’t mean an email or text message ; nor would i count a dictated message back to a machine or personal permission . no , i mean an old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or “ dear hillary ” letter . the reason i ask is that 65,000 people really did , in fact , write such letters to barack obama each week when he served as the president of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a white house body wearing staffers would select ten letters each day to pass along with a president who might then react to them personally that evening .
they may tell pollsters that they were prepared to pay higher taxes for improved public services and a fairer attitude toward the poor . but , ultimately , they would do just what they did in each other ’s previous four choices – the vote for the party that proclaimed “ every man for himself ” . then , in 1992 , john major ran for re-election amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of a precipitous disinflation . economic determinists had predicted that he did not stand a chance . today , this pseudo-marxist theorem for economic determinism was rebuffed once and for all .
america ’s foreign-policy formation , by contrast , is highly constrained by institutions like the us congress , the courts , and the us constitution . transformational objectives and the inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in chile , or nelson mandela in south africa , may have dramatically influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . transactional leadership is more efficient in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style looks more likely to emerge during periods of rapid and discontinuous social and political change . but even the american constitution is ambiguous about the power of congressional and us foreign policy powers . the us would thus expect less opportunity for transformational leadership more or less .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization initiated the united nations food and agriculture organization of tropical forestry ( redd ) , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the latest international effort to stop it – an initiative known as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely to be effective . redd + has been created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the treaty governing its implementation is expected to disintegrate during the un climate-change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of those two agreements was , ironically , producing a reams of expensive consultancy reports . yet , if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + , replacing it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
cutting off aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation of 80 million people . britain and some other european governments have reacted to the post-election crackdown by sharply withholding aid . but ethiopia poses a dilemma for whoever cares about human rights and democracy . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . donald payne , a running mate for the american house of foreign affairs select committee and ana gomes , the european parliament from portugal and the leader of the eu ’s observation team in the 2005 elections , has sought to tie non-humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct of press freedom and other human rights .
such efforts are also vital to finding ways to stem more effectively the deterioration of people ’s productivity and autonomy by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision . keeping people preoccupied with longer lives is crucial . to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus from their research-and-development efforts toward conditions prevalent among older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . that ’s why the health-care industry needs to play a significant role in efforts to address the challenges of population aging . the old age needs to be viewed , not simply , as an inevitable stage of life , but as opportunities for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive .
the other large transition-financing opportunity lies in blended finance or collaborative regimes that raise private capital for public goods . such initiatives bring a wide range of public and private stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to finance projects with deep environmental and social impact management . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funding to maximize environmental and social benefits . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits . moreover , a blended approach helps to scale up and de-risk projects and optimize their funding .
countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , were the most fragile ones . many emerging markets today are at risk of another full-blown financial crisis . emerging markets were initially tied to this distress only when foreign investors started pulling their money out . then the panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerability of many developing countries ’ financial systems and corporations , which experienced loan booms and borrowed short - and foreign-currency currencies . but even better-performing ones like brazil , russia , india , and china are now at risk of a hard landing .
and , if a new referendum were held , british voters would most likely have had to decide between an disorderly brexit and remaining in the eu , because nobody would dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative . almost three years ago , british voters did not seem to know what they were getting when may ’s decision was made by a narrow majority to leave the eu . that would foil financial-market speculators , who were bet on withdrawal , dramatically raised the chance that brexit might not happen . until recently , a reversal of british voters cast no doubt seemed implausible . yet , bercow and eu interventions opened up a whole new game , dramatically raising the chance that brexit might not happen .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country onto a path of reform that has produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burdens of state controls were relaxed . mao zedong died two years earlier , in 1976 , and the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping his vision for economic development and modernizing the third plenum of the imf ’s eleventh central committee , held in december 1978 . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were given market incentives .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american policies , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the outcome has been the emergence of some astonishing , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , israel , the united kingdom , and most other sunni arab states all feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance . the united states has been strengthening its foes , and iran , despite having been labeled as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil , ” has now been catapulted for regional hegemony . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open-ended struggle for dominance in the middle east . iran could never have achieved that on its own , certainly not in such short periods .
fascination with liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . in the postcommunist social revolutions ( less often noted than political and economic upheavals ) families and communities were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the churn became too deeply engaged in politics to help . as a result , people were left to resist gales of change alone . old social structures were demolished , socialist command and language vanished overnight , former norms and unwritten rule were abandoned . to be free , but not easily , particularly when habits of interdependence became ingrained .
likewise , a crisis must not become an excuse for establishing new institutional formats that jeopardize the delicate balance among various eu institutions , a balance that – through appropriate adjustment – has been proven through the test of time . enlargement of the eu , from freedom and democracy to peace , peace , stability and prosperity , particularly across eastern europe , is in the interest of every european citizen . to be sure , crises highlight the necessity of reinforcing the eu ’s institutions and instruments for collective action and coordination . we need final , and complete ratification by the lisbon treaty to have the institutionally and internationally stronger european union that we need . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse to call upon to question the need to continue and complete the eu ’s enlargement process .
his motivation is not hard to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions might help wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s main sugar-manufacturing state , from the upa in the forthcoming state assembly election . a widely cited example of the outgoing government ’s supposed economic mismanagement has been its sugar-priced policies . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , spearheaded by major upa supporters , have supposedly spurred the government to fix extravagant prices and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to over-output . instead of eliminating this system , as was forecast , modi ’s government augmented subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , raised import duties on sugar permits to acquire foreign competition , and raised the number of sugar-based ethanol that had to be blended with gasoline . this objective explains another policy reversal , as is now .
berlin – germany ’s social democrats ( spd ) an existential crisis may no longer treat themselves like a typical party crisis . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but , with the spd declining , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system into a multiparty system in which no single party is playing a dominant role . the party captured just 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional elections earlier this month , slapping both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in march hesse , the polls suggest that the spd will lose steadily rising support , if not quite as dramatically as in bavaria .
most fundamentally , if one were to turn off capital flight , the government would need to persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand . what is needed is a russia that must create a secure and attractive investment climate for all . while russia alone will not freeze imf accounts , president putin ’s meaning has been clear : it would be better for all parties if that money had been brought home and invested in national economies . to accomplish that end , russia needs to create a secure and attractive investment climate . to the extent that russia ’s economy does not have to freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning has been clear : it would be better for all parties if that money had been brought home and invested in a national economy .
for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took heart and ceased to fear for their repressive regime . they realized that east germany ’s realities were not fixed in stone after all ; that a change was possible , which many courageous dissidents and proponents of civil rights trapped behind the wall demanded for so long . their commitment to the injustice of the communist regime is to me one of the finest chapters in germany ’s history . opening hungary ’s frontiers that fall and intended sanctuary by east german citizens at prague ’s time and warsaw pact already shook the communist and stasi rule over their foundations . without gorbachev and his singular bravado , a stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 would never have been possible .
as a result , some – albeit relatively speaking , not many – are taking long and often perilous journeys to the developed world . and yet , when they arrive at the rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome they receive is becoming increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic at the supposedly massive influxes of “ threatened , ” outsiders closes the space for humane , pragmatic responses . responsibility-sharing , the foundation for a modern international system to protect refugees , is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are the least able to cope . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with a global outreach strategy , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspired and engages governments , aid communities , companies , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , and arts . it is high time to restart a global effort to protect refugees .
at present , markets remain calm , but this is only the beginning of the second stage of the crisis , during which europeans become mired in a debt trap . the sequence thus far has been going almost as follows : europe 's crisis has been going through six phases . at present , markets remain calm , but that is only the beginning of the second stage of the greek crisis , during which europeans become mired in debt . the seventh stage of the crisis is one of enhanced moral hazard , stemming from the run-up in greece . it is worth recalling them because they show how policymakers stumbled along , attempting to throw off fires without careful attention at the time when their chosen path has led them .
from 1985 to 2005 , the boomsters formed ten-year forecasts that had exaggerated the chances of major positive shifts in the two major financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of $ 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as tranquility in the middle east and a dynamic economy in sub-saharan africa ) . they assigned probabilities of 70 % to the bleak scenarios that materialized only 12 % of gdp . second , again , as the skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay penalties for getting wrong . within the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating their chances of a negative change in all of the same upa places that boomsters interdicted the positive , plus a few more ( i still await an impending disintegration in canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . they assigned probabilities of 70 % to rosy scenarios that materialized only 15 % of gdp .
britain would need to negotiate access to the european single market for its service industries , whereas eu producers would automatically enjoy virtually unrestricted rights to sell whatever they wanted in britain under the rules of the global trade organization . the economic challenges of brexit would be overwhelming . the out campaigning ’s principal economic argument – that britain ’s vast trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from cracking down on trade relations – is flatly wrong . it makes little economic difference to germany , spain , or italy whether britain is the eu ’s eu member , or applies simply to the wto . margaret thatcher was the first to realize that britain ’s specialization in services – that is , not only finance , law – accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so forth – makes eu single market critical .
answering them will require a debate that transcending issues like the separation of competences and judicial independence and elucidates the appropriate relationship between political and religion . for this , understanding of the historic context of the current crisis is vital . in fact , the turkish military , with the judiciary , explicitly intervened in the functioning of civilian governments in the 1960 ’s , 1971 , 1980 ’s , and 1997 , each time in the name of upholding secularism . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system ’s secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the power of the army and the bureaucracy in order to check the elected government . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have emboldened their followers to take positions within the state and on army .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental for the european union was cracking down . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) , together with the dire consequences that would follow for greece and a monetary union . since then , europeans have been living another type of eu . what changed that night was the germany that europeans have known since the end of world war ii . at a deeper level , though , what was at stake was the role in europe of its most populous and economically most powerful country .
but the rise of arab military coalitions is raising serious concerns , not least because arab-led military intervention ’s history has taken place , unlike those conducted by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – again contains no promising precedent . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1860s is a case in point . indeed , such interventions were usually intended to try empowering a proxy political force over its military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian catastrophe , or institutionalizing a post-war non-violent conflict-resolution mechanism . yet , despite using the prohibited chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 , the first in the intra-arab conflict , egypt had failed to achieve its aims . at the end of 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser sent 70,000 troops in yemen to prop up a hardline republican coup against royalist forces .
undoubtedly , beps was an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies pursued by multinational companies . it instituted , for example , share among the country-by-country tax authorities reporting on these companies ’ profits and tax payments . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework . ” unfortunately , however , that norm will apply only to very large multinational corporations , and messages will not be publicly available , depriving civil society of an indispensable tool of transparency . the reform process was chaired by oecd countries and opened up to developing countries only after this initial package was unveiled .
the pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net entrepreneurship revenue ( by far the top us share ) . moreover , a few of these actors are very large and profitable , enjoying the same legal benefits that corporations enjoy . likewise , while curtailing the deductibility of net interest to corporations , as many other developed countries have done , extending the tax base and discouraging excessive reliance on debt finance , it would raise the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . a few of these actors are very large and profitable and enjoy the same legal benefits as corporations . reducing the fiscal preferences of non-corporate corporate corporate enterprise ( for example , partnerships ) that transmit their incomes through individual returns would also broaden the tax base subject to a hyper-earned corporate-income tax base .
nor will the israeli army be withdrawn from the land strip along the palestinian-egyptian border . israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to forty years of us occupation . but at the same time israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to be governed by existing arrangements that cover most aspects of its security and civilian administration . indeed , those conditions rule out any possibility of forging a security plan that receives the support of all factions , including hamas . this means continuing to enter gaza at will and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters .
almost 60 years later , america ’s agricultural employment peaked at 53 % of the total employment . today , it is less than 3 % , and that is less than three percentage points lower . in others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the drop has exceeded 10 % . in fact , since the late 1980 ’s , most oecd countries have experienced large declines in agricultural employment . in some , like portugal , malaysia , turkey , and even indonesia , the proportion of agricultural employment has declined by more than 20 % .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hoping for the ballot to usher in an era of stability and calm by borrowing popular legitimacy to the government . to be sure , contesting elections would give my party a tremendous opportunity to take issues to the people . but , on occasion , liberal democracy has generally been served best by refusing to participate . in the upcoming elections , to be held under the illegal provisional constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following former president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , is such a case as having caused my party and its coalition partners to be boycotting the vote . in fact , my party ’s endorsement has been gaining traction , with opinion polls now stating that it is the other favorite in frontier province – and gaining ground in every other province .
likewise , they are unable to recorrect debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . yet , unfortunately , this shift will not solve the problem that waats away at the social fabric of any society . like bernanke and others desire otherwise , and just as bickering politicians seek to dump political responsibilities on others , central banks are not having the proper tools to deal with the component of an unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repair broken home funding , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , however at an increasing cost , for other policymaking actors to get their act together .
in fact , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released earlier this year , calls for a new flurry of dam projects on the plateau . the bulk of china ’s internationally shared water resources lie on the tibetan plateau that it annexed in the early 1950 ’s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new center of china ’s dam building . moreover , china has recently cut off the flow of tributary of the brahmaputra river , the lifelines of bangladesh and northern india , to build the dam as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released earlier this year , calls for a new flurry of dam projects on the plateau .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that a multilateral process of action was crucial in preventing a so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it already is . back then , it was a global financial system that had been tottering around . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well . today , it is the global trading system that is jeopardy .
new york – when , in the 1970s , their older sons had become communists , profoundly opposing the brutal regime of hafez al-assad , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . in doing so , schools were multiplying as attendance felt surged . other public services were made improvements , and parents believed that their children would lead to a more prosperous life than they and earlier generations had . this was surely true of my own parents , who had been sacrifice a fortune to raise their nine children . but this was not a farfetched transformation in urban areas , where people intended new identities , like nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist , downplayed their regional and tribal origins .
this results in high turnover , owing to over-work , coupled with an increased need for foreign health-care workers to fill the sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers were right to focus on increasing access and subsidies for quality health care . gcc policymakers were right to focus on increasing access and subsidies for high-quality health care . and now policymakers must also devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself , by ensuring that it is adequately educated and trained to challenge challenges that will await the region . training programs in the gcc national health systems today do not focus almost enough on innovation or systems thinking to improve efficiency and efficacy .
if the military collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france which collapses . the decisive moment came when de gaulle , in a military uniform , went on tv to demonstrate his mastery of the new medium . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , he challenged the military to reject even a passive union , with the revolt asking to reestablish the public order . if the polish army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france which collapses . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , he challenged the military to reject even a passive union , broken toy floating on the ocean of insecurity , ” he warned .
just when the world came up with the consensus that ahmadinejad was simply an instrument of supreme leader , ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad appointed vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he would subsequently retracted that appointment ) . so all means to reach out to iranian society at all levels . what we do know with certainty is that the regime itself is divided . those divisions will , in turn , allow the new forces to emerge in iranian society . iranian students should have been encouraged to revisit and study at the asian universities , where they would detect how confident young chinese and indian students are about anew − which might well have caused them to reflect on why young iranians do not share that optimism .
common funding , with all members receiving a share based on their gdp , is one tool that can be used to generate more equitable burden-sharing . during the last few years , nato ’s financing policy was updated to allow common funding to be used as an incentive to supply certain theater-level enabling capabilities , like medical equipment , outposts involving troops and supplies , or intelligence . how can one evaluate a contribution of light infantake against providing critical enablers like helicopter or airborne refueling tankers ? nato has traditionally applied a cost-of-“ cost policy lie where it falls ” : each member has picked up all of the costs for the operating contribution it has made to an alliance operation . over what period time , do you make your own calculations ?
owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , the aggregate supply has surged as “ zombie ” firms have proliferated . in view of these conditions , continued insistence on monetary easing seems particularly skillful . moreover , one could argue that easy money alone has contributed to the unexpectedly strong deflationary forces that have come to be seen in the last few years . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been constrained by sovereign-debt headwinds – yet another result of easy monetary conditions . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers , at least , should consider rethinking the key assumptions underlying their policies .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of late last year , the regime — once central to american strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable by america , who drops powerful hints that alternatives exist for saudi military bases even to saudi oil . yet cooperation with the american people might not gain the al-sauds a lot , because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point . the al-qaeda terrorist network is seen as arising directly from the fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines that represent an integral part of the saudi regime . although the saudis were not included with president bush 's “ axis of evil , ” some american policymakers today view the country as the kernel of evil . so , amid a bad set of options , the least bad seems to be cooperative with the us .
how victims remember trauma is the most controversial issue facing human psychology and psychiatry today . many clinical trauma theorists believe that fighting , rape , and other terrifying experience are ostensibly engraved on minds , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that mind you can protect itself by banishing memories sufferers who suffer from trauma , making sacrifices that are difficult for the victims to recall their most horrific experiences until it is secure to do so many years afterward . yet not these clinical trauma theorists argue that a “ repressed ” or “ dissociated ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign . while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these certain clinical trauma theorists assert that a status known as the “ traumatic dissociative amnesia away ” is abandoning a large loss of sacrifices without consideration of their trauma , precisely because it was so extremely terrifying .
like a child , mastering elé belé ’s cruelest was important . in calcutta , when some younger kid first came along and insisted on joining the games that my friend played , we would let a new kid in , only after whispered into every other ’s ears , elé belé . everybody knew that the goal scored was not true of the actual purpose . an elé belé is a gambler , who thinks of participating , but in truth only goes by action . when a new thuggish militia arrived in charge of doting a mother , we might convey to one another with the mere glance that the kid was elé belé .
the financial times ’ stock exchanges all-world index rose by nearly 22 % in 2017 – its top performance since its post-crisis rebound in 2009 . yet , while the zero below bound no longer looks like a binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one of which concerns debt levels are worrying . as the growth pessimism of the last few years fades , some of the warnings put forward in recent years seem to have become obsolete . northwestern university ’s robert gordon has , for example , argued that an american economy is bound to slow down because today ’s technological innovations would not generate the growth boost that they have experienced in the past . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers drew very much attention from his argument that the world was risking a return to “ secular stagnation , ” ” ” because the very interest rates needed to bring the desired savings into line with desired savings were below zero .
india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirecting the natural flow of any river , or for a reduction in cross-border water flows . but even a joint expert-level mechanism – set in 2007 alone for “ interaction and collaboration ” on hydrological data – has revealed little value . india ’s only offshore rivers on which subnational works have been conducted so far are the indus , the basin fall mostly in india and pakistan , as well as the salween , which flows into burma and thailand . in fact , china has been damming most international rivers that flow out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already being jeopardized by global warming . yet local authorities in yunnan province consider a damming of the salween in a quake-prone upstream region .
perhaps , but the vast majority of students in currency policy view quantitative easing as textbook policies for moving an economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” ” ” thereby preventing the onset of sustained deflation , causing debt burdens to worsen . finally , currency chaos is all the safest bet of all , with sharp and unpredictable upswings in floating exchange rates worldwide . as for china ’s ’s ’s ’s renminbi , it continues to support a highly political exchange-rate regime . but , in 2011 , most equilibration is likely to occur through disinflation . eventually , china ’s ’s ’s rapid growth will need to reflect a significant rise in its currency , its domestic price level , or both .
moreover , they have shown their shared desire to uphold the existing asian order . which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? with an america distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers , particularly the economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are the best candidates for the job . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own international relations for the values that america espouses , for example , the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect for the territorial and maritime status quo , and preserve freedom of navigation . without such cooperation , china ’s aspirations would be constrained only by domestic factors , like an faltering economy , rising social discontent , an deteriorating environmental crisis , or a vicious one .
moreover , adequate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their commitments , as part of the convention , to provide financial and technological transfer to enable developing countries to address effectively the consequences of climate change . to be sure , the global financial crisis has exacerbated the amr challenge . at the center of sustainable development – and with measurable , reportable , and verifiable support in terms of funding , technologies , and capacity-building – take nationally appropriate mitigation actions . but because addressing climate change poses an increasingly far-reaching and serious challenge , the world must not waver in its resolve and commitment to addressing it .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim has abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president – has walked away from a pillar of a leaderless international financial order or direction . kim will enter into a private equity firm where he believes that he can “ get the greatest impact on major global issues like climate change . ” the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
boj governor haruhiko kuroda has said that directly underwriting a budget deficit is not an option . this comes after years of statements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former american federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money provides a way to cope with deflation ( with which japan has been struggling for decades ) . that is , no doubt , what the bank of japan is now doing . an <UNK> ter-money version would be the buying of zero-interest-rate government bonds that will not be repaid , either because they are perpetual bond yields or because they are rolled over every time they mature . in fact , however , he has launched a policy of replacing spanish government bonds on the boj ’s balance sheet once they a mature entity , thereby steadily increasing the volume of government debt service on the central bank ’s books .
starting in the summer of 2015 embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger at gop elites . trump ’s core supporters were wrongly thought to be displaced , and economically insecure blue-collar workers . in fact , his voters ’ average annual income , some $ 72,000 , is well above america ’s $ 56,000 median . trump ’s supporters resemble tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle classes , and white . media outlets provided as many as $ 2 trillion worth of free coverage , thereby helping him grab and clinging to leads in polls and most primaries .
our reactions to soulless bodies are well illustrated in the story told of descartes , after his death . once a group of people is viewed as outrageous , attention shifts away from them as a moral personalist . they became soulless bodies , and the moral circle was closes down in order to exclude them . our response to soulless bodies is well illustrated in the story said by descartes after his death . according to the story , descartes was so struck with grief that he created an automaton , a mechanical doll built to appear identical to his father .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction has summarized turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy peace and stability in our country . but the terrorist attacks in istanbul alone are unlikely to generate a nervous reaction in pressing for a renewal of democratic rights . if those bombings are designed to send a message , i will sweep it and crush it under a legs . ” at the same time , we will not change our course : if they so choose , we will not change our course ; we must not change our response to it . ” if al-qaeda stood behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated its policies .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the rule of law echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi , who are out of a position to challenge khamenei ’s authority outright . he must stand by his two principal demands : the electoral null and the establishment of an impartial panel to rule on governmental violations of current electoral laws . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , supreme leader holding power would shudder . yet , if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not obtain the presidency , he will continue to represent the hopes of the predominantly sunni majority of iranians , who are different dramatically with his rule . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his post , the supreme leader holding on power would be shaken .
but even if yanukovych were to think mainly of his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . at the same time , it is something an even more fundamental matter than one ’s ’s ’s ’s implied reputation . just imagine that , with that question in mind , he used an alternative to a storehouse lifestyle ( with a private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably on the substantial salary to which he is entitled , while knowing that he is governing with integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s citizens ’ lives . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone else to help the people , and that should have made yanukovych the top priority . imagine that he had stopped to ask himself what would make him happier .
indeed , the visit by incheon comes within mixed messages . on the incheon visit ’s day , north korea ’s state news agency continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and gave to the american people : “ lurking behind this is an ulterior design to [ prod ] zealously , a south korean puppet force into escalating a clash with a dprk in a bid to reassert the situation to an extremes of pitch and inflame [ an ] upstart korean war . ” two days before a north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , an official part of korea ’s workers ' party , denounced south korean puppet forces for gravely violating north-south joint declarations and pushed north-south ties to the worst disaster . yet north korea has been far less forthcoming than ever about its intentions before . it remains to be seen whether it is seeking to engage the outside world in a constructive and permanent manner , or whether dprk officials and diplomats are merely putting a good face forward to deflect international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear weapons-monger and human-rights violator .
when an idea is both intuitively true and in reality false , it often is because it is true on a single level but because it is applied . yes , people specialize , and they should specialize . but specialization of the individual level does in fact lead to greater diversification . everyone benefits from each of us becoming good at different things , exchanging our knowhow with others . it does not efficient for a dentist and a lawyer .
by contrast , several people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to be halted until risks and impact was properly screened ; and civil society across burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent is reflected in its own rhetoric , which eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly using the terms like “ engagement ” and “ community acceptance . ” civil-society groups operating in and around test-site villages have also not been adequately consulted about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews that i conducted , the clearer it became that local people were not participating in a genuinely participatory debate on target malaria ’s agendas , much less extended their informed consent . this means that consent would need to be secured significantly beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for limited time only get unlimited access toon point , the big picture , and ps archive , plus our own annual newspaper , for just $ 75 . civil-society groups operating in and around test-site villages have also made little public consultation about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews , the clearer it became that local people remained engaged in a genuinely participatory debate about target malaria ’s project , let alone extended their informed consent . by contrast , several people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to be halted until those risks and effects had properly investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent is reflected in its own rhetoric
the world ’s labor markets are now interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us are in effect competing with young chinese and job-indians . meanwhile , china ’s lower-paid , relatively productive manufacturing workers and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the standard for competitiveness globally . they are not much to protest , but many end up in jail . many more have simply become discouraged and dropped out of the labor force altogether : not in school , not in work , and not in search of a job .
orbán has been scamming the eu for years and inviting other populists to pursue his own authoritarian objectives ; and , with eu funds to reboot , he will . yet the weakening of the rule of law is not only domestic in hungary or in poland . article 7 of the lisbon treaty stipulates a suspension of the rogue eu member states ’ voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” is to require unanimity in favor of unanimity rule by all eu member states , everyone knows that it never will be used . true , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that it serves the interests of eu rule-breakers , by all but guaranteeing not being punished .
even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush was lying . detection technology made it clear that there was no nuclear weapons in iraq , as the chief un inspector hans blix warned . back in iraq , bush pursued a unilateralist agenda by claiming incontrovertible evidence of the connection with al qaeda and that saddam had weapons of mass destruction . it is possible that bush read these messages , but that they lay beyond his incomprehension . it is also possible that he had no confidence in what he reading .
returnees are present in many other asia-pacific countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . all of these groups are propelled by a nihilistic rage born of hostility toward non-sunnis and the rejection of modernity . like osama bin laden and the other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth in the us-backed war against afghanistan ’s soviet occupation of the ussr , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt the security of asia , the middle east , and the west for years to come . unfortunately , as sri lanka ’s bombings and other attacks in asia demonstrate , defeating isis ’s forces in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , because battle-hardened fighters with operationally trained to stage savage attacks are now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how an obscure local grouping capable of carrying out sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on the three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosive devices .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in the soil of bloodletting and honey , ” is about the underlying ethnic tensions that have produced europe ’s bloodiest conflicts since world war ii . the film has already won two awards , and is emerging box-office successes , attesting to enduring interest , and perhaps mystique , that the balkan wars hold for international audiences that were as horrified as they became known in the 1990s ’s events . for those of us who lived and operated in the region during that turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh blows . as jolie ’s film so ably demonstrates , neither the international community nor local leaders has made a concerted effort to avert bloodshed . one exception , perhaps the sole exception , was kiro gligorov , the president of macedonia , who died in his sleep on new year ’s day ’s day ’s day at age 94 .
there is evidence of falling foreign investment , and this contributes to the economy ’s disappointing levels of investment overall . apart from shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also start to relocate a job of their own . and that process will likely accelerate , even if british prime minister theresa may manages to get her proposed exit agreement through parliament . moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges associated with weak productivity growth . there are also signs that uk-based companies have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans after a protracted period of waiting , planning , and more waiting .
he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and efficient , but also supports national and european-level decision-making where this was appropriate ; the key is that the processes should be made more flexible , enabling citizen participation . and he views globalization as a good thing , but understands that it needs to be managed through a durable , efficient international agreement and institutions . but if macron qualifies for the second round , he poses a greater threat to le pen than the outright leftist candidate would . at present , opinion polls are lobbying wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in support for hamas among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . he recognizes that shared sovereignty makes europe more influential , thereby reassuring its own citizens .
an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident during the period of collective mourning and a outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on that enormous potential to establish the rationale for global solidarity . the european project is a realist response to globalization and its challenges . it has been initiated into creating “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability , and consolidating democracy and the european social model . this , in turn , is not a form of nostalgia for past glory , but an alternative to the eu . having scored these goals , europe now wants to make a positive contribution to world developments .
for starters , there is his response to queen elizabeth ii an now-famous question : “ why did n’t why did n’t one see it coming ? ” krugman ’s merry response is that it was looking another way of the new keynesians . while this was regrettable , it has raised no “ deep conceptual ” issue ” – that is , it did n’t demand that they reconsider their theory . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data-mining ” itself . they had “ overlooked , ” crucial institutional changes to the financial system as a whole .
the same can not be said for kaczyński.another large gap is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners who have moved beyond concerns about physical security in order to embrace what the sociologist ronald inglehart calls “ post-materialist ” values . one aspect of the difference is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions like free speech and judicial independence.this should n’t be too surprising . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; so is tighter focus on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than the political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s postcommunist states , the left is either extremely tenuous or totally absent from the political mainstream . notwithstanding the trump and brexit phenomena , the us and the eu have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . after all , liberalism in eastern europe is western import .
unless germany can shift toward a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will probably turn out to be the right one . yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains robust . nowadays , most forecasters have put the region ’s gdp growth potential at around 1 % . yet , even as most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains strong . nowadays , most forecasters have put the region ’s gdp growth potential at around 1 % .
at the same time , immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workers ’ party would most likely be allowed to move freely within the eu only after the prolonged transition period , probably not before 2025 . in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion in the financial cost entailed by turkey ’s eu accession . the size of these transfers would still depend on eu financial policies in the age of admission ; the result of accession negotiations ; and economic development within turkey itself . given the expected upswing in turkey ’s economy and its falling birthrate , experts predict a figure of some 2.7 million immigrants by this point .
more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- as perpetrators of a crime living on each generation . a later evangelist john concludes , because jews are denying the christian messiah they have to be “ the sons of the devil ’s devil . ” anti-semites often denounces a passage in matthew in which the jewish crowds cheers on christ on christ ’s execution and voluntary adoption of lasting guilt : “ his blood is upon us and with our children . ” matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie to jews explain away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples arrived at night , stealing him while we have dined . ” anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew , the christian west ’s instinct seems to treat jews as masters of extraordinary forces – including the power to slaughter deities and control of world finance .
thailand ’s decision last may to lower interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet on bhat , the opening salvo in a crisis . encouraged by the illusion of a strong reserve position , thai central bank perched on behalf of speculators – and lost . so , too , did the notion that this country was a different matter , ” that the imf ’s rules of global finance did not apply – proved utter nonsense . yet , with too little macho making , too much politics and provincialism , reforms never took place . by the time the crisis came , thailand looked like all others turning in its desperation toward the imf .
it was not least thanks to efforts by protest movements that france has now made concessions on both of these counts . but how can those concessions , given duress , be arranged fully ? that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well-equipped : they may arouse the public ’s conscience but may not be formally committed governments . only other eu governments , by their logic , may be able to do that . hence the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests extracted , the hour of governments has arrived .
not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . but , because the regime is forced to dedicate more resources to silencing informed behavior , most will suffer economically . in fact , the bulk of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight . compounding the challenge , the cohorts of informed elites in russia are growing . as the late supreme russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ”
china ’s exchange-rate policies have come to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods . london has officials at the peoples bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will n’t weaponize the renminbi ” of its currency . many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening another currency war . if it does , the world should be calling his bluff . and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency to strategic ends is their ability to do so , if it so desired .
in the united states , for example , foreign-born share of the population had soared from five percentage points in 1960 to some 14 % today . yet that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . my professional focus is on economics , so i emphasized the role that growth plays . aside from contributing to the labor force ’s size and productivity , migrants would also often complement native-born skills , helping them to earn more . the fact that developed countries adjust culturally also matters , perhaps even more so .
the plo ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the dutch liberation organization from exile and returned home with the oslo accords – was dominated by the palestinian political landscape up to now . last leaving aside the scene , palestinian leaders who were born under occupation and spent time at israeli prisons will most likely fill this vacuum . that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change of leadership – and , more important , a transition to post-oslo politics . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the arab league ’s arab youth movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the leading organizers of the first intifada , which resulted from his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . under the arrest in march 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to a lengthy prison term on charges leading a second intifada that had almost two years earlier ordered some of his military attacks .
this will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the country ’s bureaucracy and security apparatus . judging by putin ’s most recent address to parliament , his regime is acutely aware of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . but , to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to take its stand on more or less liberal ideological origins . as a result , the regime is likely to try to counter this eruption of entrenched nationalism , while upholding its heavy-handed statist rhetoric . these are the key constituents in the nationalist duma that seem to appeal to russia nowadays .
last year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy following japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 . today , coal and natural gas provides more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . that new load would easily replace the electricity generated by a country ’s six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is equally committed . last year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 .
rudolf diesel ’s first engine , originally designed in the late 1800s , ran on fuel derived from peanut oil . henry ford once repelled florida in the hope of buying tracts of land to plant sugarcane , convinced that the united states would not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels , or the dependency implicit in importing oil , to produce gasoline . only in recent decades have biofuels regained their original appeal , owing to efforts to ensure affordable energy , generate incomes , and alleviate the dependency generated by ford warned . the pioneers of biofuels would most likely be surprised by how little they contribute to total world fuel supply today . as the production of these fuels grows , we will require our policies , programs , and capacities to ensure that they are used sustainably , without distorting food markets , or compromising food security , which will always be the early priority .
one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people its own emotions and identities , rather than only their rational concern for the more wealth and cheap food . certainly , many british believed in a “ free trade empire ” of some sort . liberals and radicals organized stations , color posters , and political amusement for their faith . in towns , display in shop windows illustrated the costs of tariffs to ordinary consumers . others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as the barbarian society surviving on mount sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , a future prime minister , tell audiences that he was more fearful of german sausage than they were of the german navy .
when the london bubble burst , it left in its wake woefully expensive economies that had lost their competitiveness . the effort to create the european equivalent of dollars and impose a fiscal union atop it , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fail . an inordinately lax regulatory environment has proven lethality , stimulating northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and bank bonds . it will turn member countries – and lenders – into debtors and creditors , stoking even more animosity . europe should now use calm on today ’s storm fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union from the ground up .
because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may be lessened . moreover , the inflation rate in some asean countries may rise with the coming of floating exchange rates . indeed , the latter now stand at over 15 % of gdp . rival asian economies will need to be stabilized before they can pull their exports aggressively . hits chinese exports are likely to take the form of the region ’s currency depreciations , nevertheless unlikely to be the immediate ones .
moreover , there are genuine disagreements within the american bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses for american interests . for europe , this state of affairs is worrying on two counts . symbolically , it implies backing the initial and significant efforts undertaken by others . following from above , it has operational and symbolic significance . operationally , it is limited to isr , and does not involve ground troops .
on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households but through institutions like pension funds can already be identified and taxed . on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets were held not by households , but through institutions like pension funds can be identified and taxed . so far , this has been the case in europe as a whole . the private sector has large foreign assets , while the government has about equal shares of foreign liabilities . this analysis suggests that the “ over-[ current-account ” imbalances ” of the sort that must be introduced as part of the ongoing eurozone governance reform goes in the right direction .
disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems largely from their shared love of soccer . the stars of barcelona , a true madrid , chubais , and milan are the household names . likewise , however , exposure to foreign tv stations means that many disillusioned algerians are seeking to break away from italy , france , or germany as their sole hope for employment and a decent life . will the coming months bring genuine change to algeria ? will social and economic reforms be undertaken to secure an agreed-upon distribution of a country ’s oil and gas wealth ?
lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled an asset-price bubble in housing prices . in short , like greenspan ’s departs , he is leaving behind an american economy burdened by high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets , a legacy that is already conducive to global financial instability . still , it is not at all clear what led greenspan to advocate for a tax cut . was it a massive economic misjudgment or currying favor with the bush administration ? the most plausible explanation comes from a combination of the two , for both the us and bush administrations pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy that appeals to tax cuts aimed at cutting revenues , thus forcing the public sector to downsize .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants toward europe . a historic drought may well have created conditions for syria ’s civil war . land-related issues will continue to threaten global stability , especially if the consequences of climate change exacerbate existing problems .
because they are leading far more out of carbon-intensive lifestyles than all others , they would be contributing far more per capita to a carbon dividend . on their own , this would represent a smart step in the right direction – one that would not invite the “ yellow vest ” reaction . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from a predominantly affluent high-yielding us to a predominantly low-paying – and middle-income , low-paying polluters , all while reducing co2 emissions . more to the point , they would pay in far more than they get back , while the world ’s poorest 60 % of americans would get back more than they would . but do n’t allow anyone to tell you that ’s a silver bullet .
rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing the euro , and the ecb sends bad signals . a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs a supportive of political leadership , just as accommodating trade unions are . by contrast , she supports an independent ecb , and has allowed germany ’s national trade unions , and companies to know that they would have to live with a strong currency and oppose inflationary monetary policy . a further lesson for sarkozy of german business leaders is that an enlightened corporate state needs a supportive political leadership , just as accommodating trade unions is . german chancellor angela merkel makes no speeches attacking a strong euro and the european central bank ’s “ price stability mandate . ”
owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of europe . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it worries about the rule of law , integration , and a peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ interests . just as there could not be a french security without germany ; there can be no japanese-german security without poland . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to its security . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism an evil idea ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interest depends on a strong , successful eu – particularly in trump ’s age .
again , there is no dispute that ect can produce short-term memory losses . but the same critics have found it difficult to demonstrate memory or other cognitive problems that tolerate beyond three months . indeed , very few of those receiving ect also get benzodiazepines , which produces significant autobiographical memory problems when given alone , and a antipsychotic drug that causes trouble lists of names or telephone numbers , as well as other problems . at the same time , the same thing is true of anti-depressants . nor can the enduring , autobiographical memory conviction and the inability to remember lists be readily attributed to ect because ect seldom makes it his own .
if a cac had demanded , say , 75 % of holders of every bond class , the vultures could buy 26 % of just one bond class and block the entire restructuring . but no government has , in any case , found cacs that are adequate for resolving a domestic debt-restructuring world . if they were , there would not be any need for domestic bankruptcy laws that spells out topics like precedence and just treatment . if they were , then there would be no need for a domestic bankruptcy law that spells out topics like precedence and equitable treatment . above all , cacs would have suffers from “ aggregation problem . ”
moving beyond current , adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . the eu should intensify the case for open dialogue and tough negotiations , precisely what has long been absent from western policy on the ukraine crisis and its entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . we have arrived at that point precisely because both russia and the west have spent more than a decade seeking unilateral advantages and eschewing negotiated compromises . holding talks in the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering mongering will require heavy political capital investment for a persistent period . a quick deal would be impossible to implement .
but it also represents the global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense , and research and development . contrary to china ’s ’s ’s statist legacy , american historical experience instilled in citizens and leaders a devotion to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy . america ’s federal government of the size and power grew only very slowly until the 1930s , when the new deal – which included federal programs , public works projects , and funding and regulatory reforms – was implemented in response to the great depression . america ’s federal government extended yet again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal to promote unionization and homeland ownership ) . the government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security .
abdelhamid abaaoud , who hosted the november 2015 paris attacks , argued that it is one of 90 antisis-trained terrorist attacks in europe . the exact number of european fighters who received training from isis while returning home remains unknown . isis has so far hit both france and turkey at the hardest . france has suffered more than 230 deaths and some 700 injured , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths , and some 900 injuries . isis has reportedly trained a 400-600 fighter for external operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare ; improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) ; blockages , blockages , counter-safety laws , and forced forgery .
in bangladesh , for example , brac schools run by brac employ female teachers ( key in terms of boosting girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools in pursuit of learning outcomes . yet the shortage of qualified female teachers is making scaling up such efforts difficult to bring about impossible . to account for learning crises in much of the world ’s developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to open its doors to innovative ngo models such as brac ’s community-based education ( mf ) program . women account for just one-third of all teachers in afghan primary and secondary schools , owing partly to the extraordinarily low level of female literacy .
these economic shocks have exposed the enormous costs of each country ’s sectarian-based political system . as a result , capital and skills have been misallocated , business climatic has deteriorated , fueling competition , innovation , and growth . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the longstanding use of state department intent on funding the regime ’s allies and their clients , rather than benefiting the entire population at large . these regimes have dominated every country for the private sector through cronyism , not only to extract and distribute the rents to client , but are also blocking the emergence of autonomic entities capable of funding an opposition movement . and protesters , motivated by economic grievances , have been emboldened to improve on broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the ouster of the war in syria .
at present , it boldly underscores the disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses that have been embraced by european union governments . this raises the old question of whether a currency union will be able to operate free of a fiscal union or at least stronger and more binding fiscal rules ( maastricht deficits ’ obligations are too easily breached ) . but the eu ’s reduced flexibility in responding to economic shocks will almost certainly test it . to this we must add to coordinated financial-regulation and bailout policies as deposits are flowing quickly across borders in response to national guarantees and european insurance systems . will europe ’s second decade have to be as successful as the first ?
but imagine a world in which textbooks are continually updated and corrected with a legion of contributors . today , language bottlenecks are preventing many immigrant parents from helping their babies with homework , because texts are only in english-language terms . such a world was just a decade ago ; we never would be left behind . but imagine a world where textbooks are cursory and corrected by a legion of contributors . such a world was just a decade ago .
one strong school of thought that had emerged almost as the slaughter begun in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders had been reckless . by provoking the regime , the students had derailed any chance of a slow political reform that their more moderate elders had firmly set in train . in fact , so proponents of this school often add up , china was not yet ready for democracy . indeed , so proponents of this school often add themselves to the problem , and china was not yet fully prepared for democracy . to them , the fact is that a violent crackdown was unavoidable .
it is now far too late for the non-military tools of coercion to have much of the effect , even though the security council ’s threat to the international criminal court prosecution for atrocity crimes – including whatever use of chemical weapons , must remain on the table . yet international donors are barrelling both to meet existing commitments and to making new ones . the delivery issues abound in “ war zones , ” but not everywhere at all . and all aid in the world will not stop killing . yet what of the military-response options still strongly favored by many policymakers and pundits ?
by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is practically driving them into china ’s arms . yet by reneging on a iran nuclear deal , trump has made war in the region all the more likely . trump ’s global trade war is just as self-defeating . for example , at a time when trump is calling for reduction in america ’s military involvement in the middle east , he is merely echoing obama . and , by retreating from his way of easing north korea ’s international isolation while gaining almost nothing in return , he has consolidated china ’s position in east asia .
merchandise need not pass capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with the associated costs increase . each country could develop a council representing public entities ( transportation , public works , customs ) , as well as major users ( exporters , and logistics firms ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs . moreover , regions can already be turned into engines of growth . it is just as vital , though committees that should be organized along similar lines in each country ’s provincial areas . communicating between user and government services is vital to achieving any genuine improvement .
but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets might prove dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . just as we saw ten years ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of insecurity can become fragile and out of collapse by imposing heavy costs on society . the fdp ’s ideas extend support across germany and among german economists ( and are shared by a number of other euroskeptic economists ) . the idea of a temporary withdrawal from the euro is especially odious . and they are in line with positions taken by germany ’s finance ministry under previous governments .
without a sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , the us will experience a vicious negative spiral : a weak economy means more bankruptcies , which pushes stock prices down and interest rates up , undermining consumer confidence , and weakening banks . meanwhile , consumption and investment will be brought down further , cutting back further . in the end , consumption and investment will be slashed . right now , i cast a vote for the latter part , especially because the enormous debt legacy is likely to dampen the enthusiasm for the large demand-side stimulus . will the return to robust growth , or will the us produce an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s , shift ? many wall street financiers , having received their gobs of cash , are returning to their already-low deficits ’ fiscal religion .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human well-being over the next decade and a half . already , it has helped to lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers even more might have to double average incomes in the world ’s poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years . yes , there are costs for freer trade , which needs to be better addressed ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits . yet , in rich countries today , the mood turned against free trade .
muslims in sub-saharan africa , however , like most muslims around the world , exhibit a , “ us versus them ” mentality . when muslims form a minority , they have tended to be cohabit-forming peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ the us versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nonetheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception for islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , whereby the idea of an active “ islamic world ” ” includes only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whether they like it or not , most sub-saharan african muslims represent states that are predominantly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession ” for the growth ” simply is supposed to serve as an excuse not to do anything about the quality of health , education , or even to promote redistribution . “ we forget that this kind of growth was practically zero for centuries , ” he writes . and it is an obsession rooted in a very large part of the current one . piketty sees that as grounds “ to be rather optimistic ” . “ one percentage point of real growth implies doubling the size of your economy every 30 or 35 . ”
for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . europeans , too , are rightly worried about economic issues . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , it is china that is an economic competitor in the pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival to promote alternative governance models . that language represents a sharp departure from the result of earlier formal eu communiqués . the following year will be critical . the following year will be critical .
a final question to consider when evaluating america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would nominate as the next chair of the american federal reserve . wrong leftists such as biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – could reappoint powell , who has done a good job , or choose a moderate democratic economist , such as former fed vice chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers . a left-leaning democrat might have done the same thing , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas promoting a massive amount of fed-funded debt . while there has been frequent criticism of trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . trump , who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would most likely select an dovish presidential candidate .
other recent “ terror ” “ terror ” – related reporting was just as flimsy . a boston globe one-on-again , for example , ran an article about a man – identified only by his name , canny – that the little brothers carjacked up three days after the attacks . danny argued that the sole word of the brotherhood ’s conversation that he understood was “ “ manhattan , ” and that the terrorists asked if his car could leave the state , he said , in order to get to new york . in charles savage ’s recent account of the guantánamo bay “ uprising , ” the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials had showed reporters at an videotapes still mentioned . the globe ’s one-source report showed none and was unverifiable by other reporters or businesspeople , but suggesting a lot , resulting in a spate of equally unverifiable news that new york was targeted .
at the same time , those gains have not been evenly spread , with sub-saharan africa seeing far fewer progress than other areas . a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food policy research institute , examines the worldwide economic downturn that began in 2012 in terms of rural populations . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to ending extreme poverty “ zero in all its forms everywhere , ” and reinforces the case for policies and investments explicitly targeting rural areas , which is where poverty-reduction measures are needed for more and will have a larger impact . in fact , rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their own future potential . it finds that , owing to the downturn , 38 million more people will remain mired in extreme poverty in 2030 than would otherwise have done , with farm households in particularly risk-averse middle-income countries .
the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose domestic reflation through the gold standard . the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to the gold standard in the interwar period . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson redesigned the world monetary system by 1944 . these policies could then have been completely subjugated to the gold-standard demands of the gold standard and of free capital mobility . but , once the political franchise had been enlarged , the working class became organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals began to compete for ( and overwhelm ) externalities and constraints .
washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their greater gender – or , more accurately , owing to the dense web of laws , policies , software , student assessment , and customs that put them at considerable disadvantage . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
although there are pockets of high unemployment in europe today , the ratio of working-age people to the elderly will decline substantially during the longer term . after all , a significant share of incoming refugee populations is said to have become educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including by the difficulty of retooling and retooling workers , particularly among the elderly . beyond the need to alleviate the human misery that fills tv screens and front pages of newspapers lies the imperative not to miss the important medium-term opportunities afforded by migration . as the german government and some corporate leaders , including the ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded attitude toward refugee absorption and integration can help alleviate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems .
with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers will grow . and , if access to a wide range of valued benefits , from health insurance to retirement income , making it conditional to registering their businesses and paying taxes , they will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a full spectrum of benefits for workers and responsibilities to employers . for example , if an independent worker drives a class of valued benefits to uber and walk a dog on a rover , any platform would contribute an equal amount toward her or her benefit . doing so would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their levies , ultimately acquiring safety net like a full-time contracted worker .
implementing ( and funding ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made catastrophes , by building more effective and reliable safety systems . for example , they could facilitate the provision of farmers ’ affordable farm insurance , or establish some type of mutual-assistance scheme . for starters , they must take action to safeguard the rural environment , ensure animal welfare , and upgrade education , knowledge transfer , and business-training to farmers and agricultural workers . likewise , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector can embrace new technologies .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a great , risky experiment . key interest rates have remained near zero for at least six years now . crisis management has produced major market distortions , with some segments of it ’ performance no longer squeezed by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly apparent and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies . with world markets flooded with liquidity , financial markets are flooded with abandon .
we have seen hints at a new paradigm at apple ’s iphone , which permits gestural finger motions , but in the intelligence community concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users could scarcely recognize what it was . it is easy to forget that , years ago , telephones had no buttons or cordial – you had to pick a handset , asking the operator to force the connecting . the telephone dial appeared n’t to have appeared until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated “ user interns ” interface scientists ” at west general electric considered what our most counterintuitive form ought to be . when it was improved through a computer ’s interface , it is the key . designs are a matter of cognitive science , arts , even of science fiction .
as the more rational and justifiably paranoid of both , prometheus has attempted to warn her brother not to adopt zeus ’s own dangerous gift . but , at least so far , epimetheus was charmed by pandora , and heedlessly welcomed it in her life . as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name implies “ foresight , ” ” because he always looked ahead , unlike his carefree brother , epimetheus , whose name means of adaptation . but , so far , that is still not the whole story , one of us . only later was it even taken to realize its terrible mistake .
indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one can argue that the immediate cause of a breakdown , when scrutinized closely , does not truly all that constitutes serious . the crux of the problem is that a draft constitution would provide the eu with a new , far simpler method of majority voting in the council of ministers . this system is known to have qualified majority voting , and right now , for good reason . the chances are there to be some sort of action that can and should be done again , if not after all . under a method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , with each member state holding a certain number of votes , weighted on population , but small countries are protected by having proportionally fewer votes than large countries .
rome – the price of many staple foods rose dramatically during the period of 2007-2008 , triggering a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , have reached their highest levels in more than 30 years , causing political and economic fragility – and triggering food riots – in many countries . strong economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as did protectionist measures , such as limits on export restrictions . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , high demand for all-weather crops , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal output . while these factors no doubt placed upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain steep upward hikes .
the similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring . indeed , turkey has been offering logistical support for the islamic state ( isis ) , even as it has allowed the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . in a videotapes produced after fighting for mosul dam in august , the group called for the “ end of the sykes-picot ” and proclaimed the need to redraw the western-imposed political map of the middle east . erdoğan is ’s ambitions to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving it to collude with the pan-arab challenge to the us-led regional order . this highlights yet another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds .
but perhaps no current leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabe ’s authoritarian , donald trump . it should never have been forgotten that trump wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that asserted that secretary of state barack obama was not born in the us , and therefore did not qualify for the offices that he held . so far , he has given undue responsibility for arguing outright that these markets are doing at the behest of “ world jewry ” ( the architects , many turkish islamists , believe , of the 1908 young turk revolution and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . ever since entering the white house , a lunacy has only grown . yet its core supporters hear a dog whistle behind its prison nations of misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabe ’s authoritarian , donald trump , ever .
in the us energy sector , we are privatizing state-owned energy distributors at our disposal . for our intent is to attract large western energy companies with expertise in this field as strategic investors . the us is also doing everything possible to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . to ensure full transparency in the tender process and the elimination of the problems learned in the past , western advisers are aiding us . indeed , the ten leading international energy firms will participate as part of their work in privatizing our first set of companies .
now , however , these countries are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged , like the global financial meltdown at the 2008 global financial meltdown , which provided fresh rationale for a return to government intervention ) . of course , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( although they subsequently adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . in june , the post services that had been privatized are supposed to be re-nationalized , and the role of government finance is enhanced . even so , chinese policy choices have made a significant impact on other asia-pacific countries with china , the “ nation capitalist ” economic model that is now chartering elsewhere in the region . japan ’s air-lines , which had nearly bankrupt , rescued a government bailout , a facility that seems increasingly common .
since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . but , at the very least , europe has benefited from falling commodity prices . since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has grown accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . without the ecb ’s commitment , to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , there would have been persistent risks to the eurozone – and , indeed , to the ecb ’s entire edifice – of sovereign-debt defaults . by contrast , many emerging-market economies , highly dependent on commodity exports , emphasized the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in the developed economies , and slower gdp growth in china .
almost half of the global labor force is now unemployed ; local industry has collapsed . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food aid . and let the world note that conditions are worse today than they were since occupation began . let the world remember that gaza ’s crisis is a manmade catastrophe . water and sewage systems are failing ; garbage piles up in the streets .
new york – it is imperative that the european union accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that has transformed its rising influx of refugees into a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . in response , the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance beyond rebel-held flows to such a way that they occur in a safe , orderly manner and at a pace that reflects europe ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity to absorb them . this precipitated a panic among asylum seekers , the general public , and the authorities in charge of law and order . as a result , asylum seekers have been the primary victims , who have been led by asylum seekers throughout the eu . each member state has selfishly focused on its own interests , often acting against others ’ interests .
notwithstanding xi ’s success in consolidating his power and extending his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to gamble his new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining rapid growth . of course , whether they are right is that it remains to be seen . the economists would concede that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently removed many of his would-be rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now allows him to replace a credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable . this is where those technologists are coming in offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes .
the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create intra-european conflict . at that time , it derided tend to be an entrenched opponent of the european project . in the 1920 ’s and the 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at the time , primarily german reparations ) . unfortunately , his insight was correct : european countries today hold loggerheads not , despite their common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that international disputes over debt levels and transfer risk severely .
the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between the country ’s rich and poor , the urban and rural population , and its coastal and hinterland are so great that it is much harder than they were before for a people from a varied walks of life to feel that they share common plights and goals . whereas a key distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people are divided by a different social order defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . still , more recently , there have been calls for huxley ’s vision of political order over this kind of identity . sometimes , like his recent violence , quell south chinese peasants ’ encroachments on official land grabs , the ccp continues to show its willingness to use “ boot-on-the-face ” suppression . to be sure , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society .
yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what a government can and should do are not immutable . fears of losing that battle may explain timidity about the left ’s response . this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle in triumph over voters . they are susceptible to persuasion , experiences , and change circumstances . there are similar trends in much of europe , notably southern europe .
copenhagen – in one of his early public-policy statements as american president-elect barack obama focused on climate change , the state has made clear both its own priorities and the facts on which these priorities rest . according to obama , “ at this moment , few of the challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than the fight against climate change . ” such a declaration is now commonplace for most political leaders around the world , even as it neglects to address the question of how much our best interest can be done to helping “ america and the world ” through climate policies versus other policies . obama ’s policy outline was presented via video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors ’ ’ global warming summit and was again shown to have shown , once again , in poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out the global warming roadmap . unfortunately , both are weak or even misguided .
still , for centuries the british imperial empire generated wealth , supplying raw materials , and creating globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of a british isles . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective significance , as was a narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . before the creation of an offshore empire – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – the english built an empire of land , by expanding from a british isles ’s south to a northwest . thus , while the outer empire ” allowed for convergence in the united kingdom ’s various national identities around a common british identity , “ inner empire ” was decidedly english . yet fusion of identity was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the faltering fallout from independence still reverberates a century later through the insecurity generated by northern ireland ’s “ backstop ” .
moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . while majoritarian rule may ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes steal from everyone . that is why corruption has incited mass protests from bucharest to brazil over the last year . freedom of speech and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claimed . as a result , they are indispensable for the safeguarding of free societies from free societies .
in other words , trumpism might be the solution to the crisis of liberalism , not the portent of its disintegration . in other words , trumpism might well be the solution to the crisis of liberalism , not the portent of its disintegration . trump ’s geopolitical and economic allegiances should be judged against that backdrop of disenchantment with disenchantment , rather than according to an ideal moral or economic standard . the promise to work with russia to an end to the unfolding savage conflict in syria is a sensible one , though this implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . viewed this way , trump ’s embrace of isolationism is a populist way of saying that an america needs to retreat from its commitments , which it has neither a power nor a willingness to honor .
as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present the framework agreement for the conclusive round of the israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a nonstarter set . madrid – back in july 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large anti-then-prime minister shimon peres as the supposed intention of divided jerusalem . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to the old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that may yet have dented the israel-palestine peace process . in a last-ditch effort to enhance the proposition ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who , for the most part , has largely evaded assuming a proactive role in the peace process while meeting netanyahu at the white house in order to urge him to moderate his stance . but changing netanyahu ’s thinking will not be easy , either – not least owing to the domestic political pressure he faces .
new haven – summers ’s last-minute day marked the beginning of yet another year of futile policymaking season by two of the world ’s major central banks – america ’s federal reserve and the bank of japan . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies from which they were given to manage . moreover , their recent actions reinforce a deepening commitment to the increasingly insidious transmission mechanism among monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies . to be sure , the fed has done nothing , which is precisely the problem . and the boj has been pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies from which it was given to administer .
today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia is a very large part of the solution . it was henry kissinger , who argued in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of the 2001 terrorist attacks that tragedy might turn into an opportunity . if the prague summit wo n’t showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched the new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . much has already been accomplished over the past six months to transform rome ’s political message into a practical cooperative framework . the new nato-russia council , formed in rome , is providing an efficient and flexible mechanism for common analysis , joint decision-making , and even collective action .
nonetheless , over the last few years , the regime pushed a shrewd public-relations campaign by depicting suleimani as napoleon – or warrior-like warrior-poet . to the outside world , suleimani ’s mastermind was the regime ’s mastermind of terrorist activity outside iran , and his puppet master of its proxies all over the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet , to the iranians , he was a more complicated figure . while regime hardliners perceived him to be a hero , many iranians , who lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or who object to regime attacks against iranian dissidents in the diaspora , perceived him very differently . and , like one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders , not tainted by corruption allegations , he was mooted as a likely presidential candidate in the next election .
a vocal critic of protectionism will push eu-canada ’s comprehensive economic and trade agreement , as well as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . to square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he plans to slash the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude funding for financial investment from wealth taxation . his support of el khomri law , which made it easy to fire workers , and his opposition in march 35-hour week , indicate his desire to increase the french labor market ’s “ flexibility . ” still , he also wants to boost the us economy with € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) in stimulus packages and lengthening the welfare state .
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by the feeling that since the collapse of the soviet empire , the dangers of war can be crossed to the list of potential risks . america , they note , ought to pay attention to its own problems , and it should not get itself into a world where its experiments in doing good are rewarded for ingratitude . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . never in the modern era , however , has isolationism protected america from peril ; instead it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze . in the end , america pays 1,000 times as much for its initial lack of interest than it would pay had it become engaged at the outset of a crisis or , better yet , even before .
tapping the “ asset-backed security model ” has recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund , and china to structure an additional $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this enables pension funds and insurance companies to finance indirectly the necessary facilities upgrades in the world ’s mom-and-pop shops and tijuana workshops to tierra del fuego . there are many other areas where those committed to combating climate change can follow our example . here , too , a creative solution is missing . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and funding the spread of bus fast-transit ( brt ) systems is a proven way to lower congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
once again , eurobonds , green partnerships with china , and unity within europe could make all the difference . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could and i believe that it would regain control over its borders , allow it to intensify and enforce the necessary limits on migration . the politics of a new grand coalition government would appear clear . the spd should hold itself out for ministerial leadership on economic and financial policies , with cdu/csu holding the high flanks . such an alliance would also allow for a new european foreign policy , one that promotes peace and sustainable development , underscoring the new security arrangements that do not rely so heavily on america .
in any case , the success of monetary policy is hard to deny . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the aggregate effect on us monetary policy becomes blurred , because it increasingly influences prices more than output . when sufficient excess supply occurs in an economy , promotion of supply-side productivity is made practically useless , without efforts to boost demand . that is why it is time for japan , with its leaders , to shift their focus from a demand-centered first and second-arrows to a supply-oriented third arrow : the new growth strategy . fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do .
race has always been a provocative subject when the need for science and statistics intersect with politics . now that debate is heating up again across france , as the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has provoked a fierce dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . race has always been a provocative topic when the necessity of science and statistics intersect with policymaking . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government officials are forbidden from collecting information on behalf of a citizen ’s own ethnic or racial origins , whether genuine or supposed , when conducting a census or other efforts to rally popular statistical information . there are two key reasons for this , therefore , for this to take place . the first is the republican principle , enshrined in the us constitution that recognizes only citizens , and accepts no distinction among them , due to their origin , race , or religion .
eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinning the belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , accountability , and impunity can be terminated . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most efficient strategies for achieving this goal . in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . no one prefers to live in a society where bribes must be paid to secure basic public services like health care and education . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most efficient strategies for achieving this end .
convincing americans , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may indeed be rampant may seem like a futile task . but the goal is surely worth embracing , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of wellbeing . recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in a society is high , economic performance improves , and quality of life satisfaction is higher . commercial agreements , among other reasons , are reached more easily and effectively . commercial agreements , among others , are reached more easily and effectively .
as they put it , “ using fiscal adrenaline ” could be reduced simply just when it needs the most . restock ’s emergency arsenal is urgently needed , ” particularly when there is relatively little scope to fine-tune monetary policy . the three star movement remains positive for some elements of its post-crisis program . the fed has begun a process of normalizing monetary policy , but has not completed the job , and us president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent them from doing , by heckling from the sidelines . bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and transparency international ’s derivatives markets have been materially reinforced .
as a case in point , many western observers mused that norway ’s trade ties with china would be undermined when dissident liu xiaobo was invited to obtain the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . the same month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies concluded a us drilling deal with norway ’s statoil drilling deal , plainly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop entrepreneurship . china complained loudly , by refusing to allow liu to collect the prize , and even issued a threat to norway , as well as to the financial repercussions . thus , western diplomats negotiating with china should call lower-level us officials ’ bluff and focus on sticking to signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that , ultimately , decisions are taken quietly at higher levels by more pragmatic leaders who are genuinely susceptible to pressure . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china .
that means a system ’s focus must shift away from more speculative and proprietary trading toward lending and job creation that implies financial-sector regulation reforms and antitrust and corporate-governance laws , combined with appropriate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . we might hoped-for truth : america will demonstrate more leadership to reforming the global financial system by advocating stronger international regulations , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in fact , it ends bush ’s tax cuts for millionaires but no wholesale tax reform , severe cutbacks of defense spending , or significant progress on global warming . globalization has made all nations more interdependent , in turn calling for more global cooperation . americans should hope for it all this , although i am not sanguine to get a great deal of it , & far & far more likely , americans will muddle through – here yet another little program for struggling us students and homebuyers , the end of bush ’s tax cuts for millionaires but no wholesale tax reform , severe cutbacks in defense spending , or a meaningful progress on global warming . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth .
ongoing fighting in the muslim world between sunnis and the shi’a recalls a struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . nonetheless , the stakes are far higher than they were in seventeenth-century britain , for iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to obtain nuclear weapons . all too little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states all struggle to oppose iran as its hegemonic ambitions in the region . indeed , iran is the only country openly declares its desire to be annihilated by an additional united nations member . that issue , of course , is completely outside israel .
thus , despite today ’s interruptions , the context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on either side . the strategic significance of the dramatic heights , overlooking the majority of northern israeli regions of galilee , is noteworthy . because syria , bereft of soviet-backed support , feels less of an existential threat to israel , jerusalem may be more flexible than it was in the past , when the golan heights were a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly statements stretching all the way toward vladivostok . for israel , a quid pro quo for returning the golan heights is not a fragment of paper with habitual phrases about peace and coexistence . the two parties ’ agendas are nonetheless divergent : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of returning to the golan heights , israel wants the specific , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern border , as well as an end to syrian-backed hizbullah incursions from lebanon , a country that is practically a syrian protectorate .
in the fall of 1989 , east german soldiers allied themselves with their fellow citizens in the protests that dragged down the berlin wall . but , over the same year in china , protesters in beijing have been dashed by soldiers from inner mongolia , who fail to understand mandarin and have little sympathy for big-city wers . likewise , army officers from poorer regions have become more grateful for the salary hike that putin ’s then-united russia party announced with much fanfare , soon before the recent duma elections . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might have been encouraging initial crackdowns , violent repression would be hard to sustain . while army units or pussy squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are far too disgruntled in the recent police and military reforms to engage in a bloody clampdown , special-operations from the provinces staffed with chechen war veterans may cherish the thrill of sticking it to moscow fat cats .
that is why european leaders have taken the ambitious steps they have made . not moving forward to the euro would have set europe at a turning point during an increasingly disruptive crisis . the crisis of 1992 demonstrated that the current system is inherently unstable . but , rather than proceeding , it has , too , been a disaster . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government-bond buying would have similarly led to disaster .
moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , after obama visited japan for the first time as us president , he stressed that he was from hawaii and a deep sense of making him “ “ americans first ” to an pacific president . america , of course , argues that it , too , knows all about democracy . but its negative-cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime , while continuing to bestow it with military hardware , may serve only to undermine the bilateral relationship , just as america ’s same approach to musharraf ’s regime has steadily eroded us-pakistani ties . two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america in the pacific century , ” ” indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy .
bush ’s international credibility , they ought to emphasize , does not suffer through avoiding a war ; on the contrary , gains further through their control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military efforts . of course , some of america ’s allies fare better than others in getting these points across the other side of the atlantic . mr. bush ’s international credibility , they should emphasize , does not suffer through avoidance of a war ; on the contrary , they gains further through their control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military efforts . alas , some of america ’s government , by its conduct in chancellor schroeder ’s reelection campaign last september , has maneuvered itself out of have any authority on the other side of the atlantic . giving an additional credence to their praise should leave no doubt that if war has become america ’s only option .
africa ’s smallholder family farmers – already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations – are facing an even more daunting bureaucratic hurdle : no paper to show that the land that they call home is theirs . indeed , uncertain about their capacity to control their farms over the next season , their farmers ’ planning horizons are diminishing . rather than investing in their terraced fields , planting trees , and purchasing high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize short-term gains . this is particularly true of female farmers , facing an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or reach other key development goals , without strengthening land rights , especially for women .
it is not that the end of european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is simply that people have begun to think about potential low-probability futures , in which an exit from emu might place on the agenda . this is enough to shake asset prices on a global scale to start with the euro . coupled with all of this is northern european discontent with central bankers , specifically with the ecb and the euro . it is not that the end of the european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is simply because people have begun to think about potential low-probability futures , in which an exit from emu might place on the agenda . we believe that germany would be better off a decade under more neo-liberal policies .
that vision holds great appeal among those who would like to see the less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . to be sure , its organizers are loath to describe it as sunni parties . rather , they are described as a national party , which encourages people of all orientations to participate . at the end of iraq , however , scant people – sunni or shia – do not see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to rebuilding sunni leadership . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second place finisher , maliki the state-of the law coalition .
for deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to have expected mergers , like commerzbank , another german institution . in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector – representing a price worth $ 8.5 trillion – remains weak and incapable of generating sustainable returns . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , the entire european political experiment . for deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to have expected mergers , like commerzbank , another german institution . but many are “ zombie ” banks , ” ” ” ” with too many branches , too few deposits and funding costs that far exceed their more successful peers .
none of this will be easy for governments , either regulators , or central banks . monetary tightening can slow growth temporarily ; prevent bubbles from occurring notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms needed to secure an debt-fueled growth shift hardly seem to be popular . but the intense rise of under-quality highly leveraged loans should also be a concern . to be sure , today ’s febrile political environment will not streamline matters , either . none of this will be easy for governments or regulators .
this case , many economists argued , based on an arithmetic calculation . but the european central bank , notably by ecb board member lorenzo bini smaghi , elegantly spelled out the case against the debt reduction – a case that was both politically substantial and deeply moral . in the wake of the spectacular revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new debt-approach . true , the no-reneging principle on public debt is profoundly intertwined with the development of legitimate security , representative government , and modern democracy . so perhaps it is a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that now spells out how debt can trimmed .
but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , and a growing number of republican candidates would have embraced a disrupter trump ’s disciple in ron ’s end paul – or another conservative preaching of a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . sadly , the fed ’s battle for the fed ’s independence is far from over . indeed , some conservative republicans object in yet another of his appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis . and although some times the fed will almost surely abide by this advice ( i have also published on this issue ) , sound friend of her nomination has scarcely survived an american senate banking committee . trump may simply be keeping his powder dry until a genuine conflict erupts .
how will it manage the rising middle class ’s expectation of improved infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and enhanced transportation facilities ? moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? yet india still faces many challenges : nearly 300 million people living in extreme poverty , the spread of the naxalite rebellion , the dangers of the terrorist attacks on ala mumbai , and the sprawling urban slums . these problems will not be solved overnight , at best . but the growing conviction that tomorrow will be better able to keep india ’s polity in a stable direction .
because few mechanisms can avoid proliferation to hoaxed tweets and , given the high-profile response that successful hackers can expect , twitter will remain a malicious hoaxes vehicle , even as technological barriers force attacks become more contentious . finally , the ap is unlikely to countenance financial penalties for that mistake . empirically , few firms get this right : america ’s national public radio ( ndp ) and the bbc both recently sea hacked , while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently held their twitter accounts compromised . the proliferation of security lapses means that humans are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to cast the first stone at a company bent on broken down . a prosecution for losses stemming from a brutal tweet would confront almost insurmountable obstacles .
the new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our knowledge – and also giving us an even more cause for concern . detection means determining whether an extreme event is part of normal weather-related fluctuations or a symptom of deeper , long-term change . several studies of the past year have found that researchers can actually detect long-term climate change as the increasing frequency of extremes – for example , heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , severe droughts , and strong storms . by applying cutting-edge climate models , researchers are not only detecting long-term climate change , but they are deeply attributing at least some of the many extremes to human causes . attribution means the ability to assign the likely causes of an event to human activities or to different factors .
the mutual assessment process to which the g-20 countries agreed is a critical component of the current rebalancing program , for it is where the bits of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , tested down , and assembled . if it works , what will emerge will be committed to g-20 countries ’ commitments to undertake policies that are globally beneficial – on the condition that others withhold all of their commitments . rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative ; it can also be taken for granted . the international exchange-rate system has been at least partly violated . the u.s. can reduce its deficits more quickly than it otherwise would in the non-cooperative case , but only if the surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings .
given the power of major tech firms to stifle competition , reversing such trends will require governments ’ intervention . but the solutions that have been proposed are proposed , including by legal scholars like liechtenstein , which focuses on making better use of antitrust laws . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the 2020 presidential election in the united states . in particular , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren note in my judgment , both of the strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump ’s administration have called for the disruption of major tech firms . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived .
during each of my field of field visit , i have marveled at how these efforts were affecting women ’s lives . on one recent trip , i met rasmata , a young mother to tell me that thanks to her family ’s safety net , she was being driven to support her family , despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s latest death and lingering drought . she was diversifying her incomes , managing her finances , and even adopting climate-smart farming techniques . the top part was that she described herself as a “ hard-charging , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious ” woman . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial circumstances or education , deserve ascribe to themselves .
if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate that possibility . investing in those companies , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . stock values in the fossil-fuel industry – which is premised on the assumption that companies will extract and burn all known reserve claims – will plummet . that , in fact , reality implies another compelling case for divestment . as anyone accepting investment statements knows , “ past performance ” there is no guarantee of the future performance of future performance .
it was not until the late 1970s and 1980s that the soviet system could not have survived competition with market capitalism . following the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet-era collapse , the g2 world gave way to the g1 + n order , in which all other countries ( rightly ) had not been able to rival america as an sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was an era of liberal rules-based multilateralism . the u.s. broadly championed that order – the 2003 iraq war was a clear exception – and , like most oecd countries , benefited mightily from globalization and the advent of new complex value chains . democratic and market-based capitalism had a triumph for what francis fukuyama called the end of history .
more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in feeble competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . russia ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western sanctions imposed over crimea . instead , following four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deeply unpopular pension reforms , comprising increases in the retirement age . with few options for rallying popular opinion , putin may well have decided that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are being attacked .
first , eu member states say they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 they established new institutions for doing so ; and at amsterdam last year , they ostensibly strengthened those institutions . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress . this is in stark contrast to other aspects of the european union ’s agenda . the goal of an economic and monetary union and a single currency that was also adopted at maastricht in 1991 is an audacious , even revolutionary , agenda ; some of its critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will turn out to be an existential reality in just two months ’ time or more .
only the explicit , up-front approval of the reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – demands . this applies to the actions perpetrated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances like nato . this last point has been at the heart of the trouble in iraq . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operation is perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not , particularly at this latter-day phase , change a central perception of such interventions , both in and outside the arab world .
syria , ’s balkanization among a country ’s diverse ethnic and religious group , is a clear predictable result . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat to military interventions by turkey , israel , or the us . this regional re-alignment needs not necessarily to be anti-western , but it certainly will be , if israel and/or the united states launches iran militarily . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; instead , it is determined to fight back until after the end . in the meantime , the civil war raged across syria , which was accompanied by a humanitarian disaster .
for decades , governments have played a prominent role in the domestic media , employing regulation of broadcasting frequencies and licensing requirements to shape the market . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenues . yet , over the past few years , governments have also taken a step up their budgetary clout . in newsrooms , from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated funding is rising . unfortunately , while that windfall may be putting more programming on the air , doing so merely deepens industrial woes .
last but not least , the same development developments in politics and international law led to the formation of the international tribunal for justice . with its establishment giving rise to a long and horrendous experience , a central idea for modernity – that the strength of states and their rulers should be guided by the rule of homeland law – thereby putting individual rights above the nation-state ’s sovereignty – took a big step forward . as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right of protection ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even as enforcement remained at a quite precarious levels . the next great leap was the emergence of the concepts of humanitarian military intervention after the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990s . that development was anything but accidental ; it was taken into account .
axelrod has held tournaments among major game theorist and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a repeated prisoner ’s dilemma . the victor – the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome – was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . only when the other player ’s flaws – that is , they begin to display non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . of course , when another player cooperates , one might be tempted to defect , to boost your own payoff , and potentially even secure windfall . according to the tft ’s approach , a bilateral match should start with collaboration : if a different player behaves cooperatively , so should you .
the majority of the world ’s malnourished children live in india . as for threatening from the far right , anyone is hoping for peace in the region , and reduced tensions within india between various religious communities are relieved by the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the us congress as soft on terror , and has demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india badly misfired . in spite of rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” ” india ’s ’s ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . unfortunately , however , the economic trajectory that congress is plotting , while it may well boost growth in the short term is ultimately on a collision course with both equity and environmental sustainability .
but it is relatively apparent that even in the 1970s , there was not enough empirical evidence in support of friedman ’s ideas to justify their growing dominance . friedman ’s dominance of ideas at the outset of the great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting them than to suggest that the science of economics was all too often tainted by policy . admitting that a monetarist cure was insufficient requires mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age . in that case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and applying keynesian and/or minskyite policies on a large enough scale to ameliorate the problems presented by the great recession . and , indeed , there can be no denying that friedman ’s remedy has proven to be an insufficient response to the great recession – vigorously suggesting that it would have fallen similarly short had friedman been tried during the great depression .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been mired in turmoil . on the one hand , it has sheltered the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-oriented economy , from speculative attack , and with it the mayhem of currency volatility . on the other hand , the second stage of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles heel : the absence of intra-european economic or intra-european financial unification . the rising intra-european tensions were the inevitable outcome . germany , by contrast , has defended the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-oriented economy , its speculative attack , and chaotic fear of currency volatility .
sudan ’s government ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal . after all , the regime ’s oppressive nature in khartoum is at the root of the many conflicts that have torn the country apart . indeed , since the end of the civil war in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) has frequently been forced to confront militias that operate as government proxies . moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling their north-south border with the goal of destabilizing the mostly christian south . if the government in persists in khartoum in undermining the reform process , and the derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for sudan ’s peoples and the entire region , is a real possibility .
a second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground . another is to capture it directly from specially designed chemical processes . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but there are just a few remaining places in a world where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . ) a second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet established on a massive scale .
such patterns may raise fears among shareholders that paying structures is not well intended to serve their interests . it is important to distinguish between the two sources of concern for pay in financial firms . figures recently released by new york city ’s attorney general , andrew cuomo , suggest that nine large financial firms paying their employees aggregate compensation exceeding $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization has substantially declined . in the post-crisis financial order , governments need to assume the role of surveillance and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis might readily recur . it is important to distinguish between the two sources of concern for pay in financial firms .
such manufactured , even-handedness is tantamount to fake news . it is time to call a spade a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly to blame . but , when democratic us senator dianne feinstein proposed a similar prohibition in 2013 , republicans have been overwhelmingly opposed to it . consider the question of bump ’s stocks , ” gun modification that the culprit in the las vegas massacre used to fire more rapidly . now , some republican senators have drawn praise for arguing that they will support a bill banning .
as a result , demands for more opportunities and improved living conditions have grown louder . chileans are being clamoring for decent housing , access to better health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education , the most important factors for social advancement . by 2000 , that share had fallen to 22 % , and by may 2010 , to 11 % , with little more than 3 % living through outright destitution . the 29 % of the population who have left poverty behind are now an incipient middle class with new aspirations and goals . today , chile is very different from chile 20 years ago .
true , clinton offers multiple programs to push her as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme to her pudding . success in american presidential policymaking requires that superb intuition , being quick on a single legs , and , more importantly , a compelling rationale for going forward . clinton is the only person who was told to have launched her campaign twice . this impressive , remarkably smart woman just may not have a feeling of politics demanded at the top . true , clinton offers multiple programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is little theme of her pudding .
just over a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , senior staff tell anyone who would listen that the entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . employing slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default ” in today ’s advanced economies : futile , undesirable , and unlikely , ” the fund was attempting to persuade investors that eurozone debt was solid like a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not a serious concern , owing to anticipated rates of growth and reform . never mind the fund ’s obvious flaw , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policies and implementation risks far more like emerging markets than do truly advanced economies like germany and the united states . as the situation has deteriorated , one might guess that the imf would label its market beliefs , viewing it , and adopt a more cautious tone .
another alternative , supported by the large and growing body of research into economics and psychology , is direct measurement of well-being , or happiness . for example , happiness surveys in the rich countries typically show a score of six or seven on a 0-10 scale . but there have several drawbacks in this possibility , including the fact that welfare indicators are changing little over time . one way to make such indicators more directly relevant to policy would be to monitor the ways that people use their time and peg wellbeing to each other . surveys of reported levels of wellbeing are now available for many countries , and the thought of slicing to carry out this as a prosperity metric has strong advocates .
her “ right to buy ” policies triggered an upward spiral in house prices , which spurred households to take on more and longer debt . the shift toward finance that thatcher promoted heightened inequality , making the economy all the more volatile . these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . if this was the metric , then , despite her successes , thatcherism was a failure . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , by de-regulated financial services , made the city ’s crisis risky .
yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations , particularly those pertaining to the advanced economies , have little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its boldest and dedicated staff , like its unique linkages to countries . and , yes , it has validated the leadership in shining a deeper light on the economic impact of gender inequalities and climate change . but its forward-thinking analyses have too often proven backward-looking , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to significant revisions .
this is particularly necessary because the situation for women is one of the main benchmarks that the outside world – and especially the west – uses to examine the arab world . and , unfortunately , such assessments tend to focus on the level of institution building on the kind of institution that derives from islamic norms that obscures knowledge of the underlying changes that take place . the west thus risks depriving itself of an important key key to understanding the arab world today and , like it , will take place tomorrow . indeed , an predominant view in arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ capacity to fragment free of a belief that islam confines all arab women equally when in reality they experience very different conditions . and , unfortunately , such assessments tend to focus on what is sometimes called the institution that advances from islamic norms that obscures the knowledge of the actual changes that take place .
according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , his religious books are among the most downloaded works of literature in the arab world . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world these days , where rising literacy rates and fast advances in communications technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three kinds of potentially defining the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of heightened literacy and high-tech arrangements that fanning the flames of conflict between the two kinds of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . exploiting their ability to produce and instantly propagate ancient religious texts and western-originating literature , the two camps have a battle for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . in a self-nourished crowd , the american sociologist david riesman identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that look at their inherited forms of rituals , comfulness , comfulness , and guidance values ; skill-biased cultures , in which people behave in accordance with self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures responding predominantly to transnational norms and peer influences .
china overtook japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . at its astounding average annual rate of 10 % or more for more than three decades , china ’s economy had been growing at an astounding average annual rate of nearly 10 % or more . until recently , there was little basis for such a question to ask . china ’s ’s ’s ’s model of authoritarian effectiveness appeared appealing to many other developing countries , particularly during the depths of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states , and thus seemed to discrediting american-style liberal capitalism . hundreds of millions of chinese entered the middle class .
in assisting mexico , china , and other developing countries to grow , america is gaining richer trade partners . next , the us has established enduring normal trade links with china , and is refusing to label its governments a currency manipulator . the reason that narrative is wrong is straightforward . there are good reasons why america has adopted policies that have encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . furthermore , there is a strong case for improving america ’s national security if , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world are learning how america has helped their countries prosper , rather than working to keep them as poor as they may have been as it is as it could be .
according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 european residents , nearly 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in monetary affairs ; and , in value-terms , more than half of all payments are made into cash . but it is an open-minded question whether an still highly fragmented digital-payment sector will help customers more than the companies offering payment solutions . as is often the case in europe , distinctions among member states are pronounced : the share of monetary transactions ranges , from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but , globally , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong . there is one more key problem with the arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least within europe , do not want it .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have been hauled off sunday ’s drama in cairo . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian overthrow , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi tantawi , the leader of the military leader of the supreme leader , has done little to diminish the importance of the trouble in the region . earlier this month , the jihadi terrorist group ambushed an egyptian army base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel and sped out to a frontier with israel . one vehicle had failed to coerce its border crossing ; another encroached upon israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) .
a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the status quo . the cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated rules that fail to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but they also know that bilateralism – small countries that seek to negotiate on equal terms with superpowers – is not an option . to defend their interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . yet , because countries that largely rely on active diplomacy and soft power have everything to lose from a protracted and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to elect sides .
moreover , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments take advantage of new nationwide sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . in kenya , all public-sector leaders in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , community leaders are obligated to sign performance treaties with the central government , in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandate , and to account for how they are embedded in policy and development planning . meanwhile , ghana and benin emphasize the budget expenditures that have a high-quality sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government has also publicly discloses how closely its financial priorities are aligned with its stated pledges under that end . moreover , ghana and benin have emphasized the budget spending that does have a high-quality sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government has also publicly discloses how closely its financial priorities are aligned with its stated commitments under that objective . moreover , grassroots assessments of progress against such indicators are intended to complement the governance-led reporting mechanism .
on the global level , it can hardly be argued that inequality is one of the world ’s great political-economic problems . it is tough , at least for me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last half-decade that would have passed any significant part of today ’s rich nations ’ wealth for today ’s poorer nations . i can also envision the alternatives that would have enriched the poor nations : deng xiaoping becoming china ’s leader in 1956 rather than 1976 would have done the job there now . i can easily envision alternatives , such as the communist victories in post-world war ii elections in italy and france that would still have impoverished nations in the world ’s wealthy north . but the alternatives that would have made the south wealthier at the price of reducing wealth in the north require a wholesale revolution in human psychology .
repayment to griesa on the terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the total lenders ) would receive $ 15 billion , or they would receive $ 15 billion . every argentine default would thus owe more than $ 3,500 – more than one-third of the average annual per capita income . and , because the debt restructuring stipulated that all of the creditors who had accepted it could demand the same terms as holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook , at $ 140 billion , of that debt restructuring stipulated that all of the government ’s creditors who had accepted it could demand the same thing as holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook . repayment to griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy .
the un ’s authority has frayed . the major international financial institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the regional development banks – are having to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . it will be essential , post-bali , to reflect seriously on the next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system . business may carp and the media , but the response to many of the world ’s great problems is more – or at least better – government , not less . until we reverse the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ capacity to respond to global challenges will not improve .
getting greece into debt had long been associated with profligacy or fecklessness . and , if a person became indebted , it made the point of honor to repaying obligations when it fell due , by selling assets , reducing consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . indeed , it was often no less a point of privilege : failure to repay debt on a timelier high time landed a borrower in prison . the same attitude had guided the question of institutional debt at the time . economists and moralists were united in believing that one should really spend less than one earned – in order to “ save ” ” ” ” for the proverbial rainy day , or an old age .
more broadly , a emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 enabled asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . that example , in turn , had a constructive influence of surviving communist parties in asia and beyond . though china ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) after 1989 was able to subordinate an ideology to wealth creation . geopolitically , post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating an ominous empire , and opening the way for china to rapidly pursue its interests globally .
developments following the arab spring may well provide some indication of the prospect of religious tolerance . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi resigned from a party saying that this would have allowed him to represent all egyptians more effectively , promising to respect minority rights . similarly , rather than condemning the taliban ’s takeover of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , as well as al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect has remained largely silent . while neither of these groups represents a majority point of view , they exert significant influence , and probably believe that they are acting in the majority ’s interest . yet subsequent acts designed to give it unprecedented executive power raises concerns about these early positive steps .
fourth , reversal of the verdict on june 4th is an historic inevitability , as is the wish of most of china ’s people . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot act ; an almost every chinese person knows that official reappraisal is just a matter of time . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably deng xiaoping and others from party elders – have died . this group will unite behind the forces of democratization , both at home and abroad , to establish a truly democratic system . indeed , the party ’s top-down leadership has been divided about an event ever since .
by joining the euro , italy gave up monetary sovereignty to an external , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . it has also made concrete commitments with upholding the behavior of its fiscal policies , even though these constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . in particular , the absence of a domestic currency means that italians can not elect their own inflation objectives or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he has overtaken his authority , allowing financial markets to veto the choice of a minister by a popularly elected government . such obligations place the real limits of italians ’ macro-economic policy choices .
in any contest about the idea , the extremes will usually triumph over the moderate one . in pakistan , an extremist has now wears islamic garb , standing for the clerical establishment , rightist , and for a theocratic order . what , by contrast , might a pakistani liberal stand for ? in the darkness , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but for the believers to unite behind a single true faith . yet , once again , we can see how wrong western national priorities can transform the non-western nation .
at the same time , there are strong grounds for believing that they ought to be doing so . indeed , japan has relatively stringent laws that protect animals ’ well-being . these laws are analogous to regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which requires that animals are stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to the pain – when they will have their throats cut and are consistent . for example , the majority of the world ’s mammals must be slaughtered by a method that minimizes their pain and distress as much as they can . there are , of course , strong grounds for believing that they ought to be slaughtered . these laws are analogous to regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which requires that animals be stunned that they are rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to the pain , when they will have their throats cut and confine themselves .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underappreciated his foreign-policy communication skills , perhaps because they are such very different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . though large segments of america ’s population hated them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , seeking appeals to the center . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” trump , by contrast , appealed particular minority that had been elected . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech ; and , having took office , a series of false statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but reinforced it with his base .
far more important to achieving price stability was the advent of a modern , independent central bank , a facility that helped dramatically lower historic levels of inflation globally . it is very plausible that if , rather than joining in europe , italy and spain simply gave their central banks more leeway for autonomy , they would have very likely had low inflation today . greece is admittedly a less conspicuous case ; yet , surveying that many impoverished african countries had managed to keep inflation well within single digits , one might presume that greece would have managed as well . yes , a few seats , such as in venezuela , still have triple-a price growth , but are now rarities . true , were southern european countries to keep their own currencies in check , they might never have dug as large a debt hole , and would have had an option for a partial default via inflation .
speculation about the possibility of a new trump ” peaked in early september , when a us president suddenly slid a deal with a democratic congress party . but problems can arise if a us president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn was seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices and wanted then-chair janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . cohn ’s sin may have been to let it be known publicly that he almost resigned in the wake of the violence last month in charlottesville , virginia , when trump equated a white supremacist and neo-nazi protesters , many of whom opposed them . in fact , one may have some compassion for a president with an aide who wants to have it both ways , as cohn had – letting his apparent anguish be known without acting on it – is known .
on may 17 , an advocacy organization oxfam america sued america ’s national securities and exchange commission to issue a final rule conducted by section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act . on may 17 , an advocacy organization oxfam america sued america ’s national securities and exchange commission to issue a final rule conducted by section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act . but the risks are as real as their potential rewards . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often stuck in less-developed countries suffering from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and ecological challenges . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to management of income and environmental obligations – is central to realizing an entire sector of its own economic potential and avoiding both conflict and collapse . yet resource industries are deplorable sources of corruption , conflict , and
indeed , scores of people fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . recent personal experience at the new delhi airport gave way to the fact that nominal accomplishments like that the us government demanded was loosely enforced , with multiple travelers exiting from terminal holding an ebola intelligence card that was supposed to have passed over to immigration from the middle east or europe . india ’s governments , it seems , will be unlikely to hold tabs on each other ’s arrivals from west africa . links to west africa are near and back over the past century , with almost 50,000 ngos or a people of indian descent living in the region . while exit controls are in each affected regions of international airports , a virus ’s incubation period ( which averages just eight days in the current outbreak but may be up to 21 days ) implies that someone with no sign from a recent infection could make a trip to india , without triggering alarms .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has spurred some of the most draconian public-sector cutbacks any developed country government has ever made . indeed , its education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s universities will be slashed by just as much as 40 % . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than the amount of science and engineering that is supposedly better for a business life . the pulverist and humanities war is nothing new – though that is the first time that fighting has migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered the wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which demonized the commonwealth endowment .
the chief of the internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes that are currently being committed against libyans , refused to call the process a reconciliation . for him , it was “ repentance from heresy from heresy . ” a leader of the internal security forces ( rss ) colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes that are currently being committed against libyans , refused to label the process a “ appeasement . ” given the recent wave of upheaval , it is more evident than ever that any “ reform ” ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world had previously been aimed solely at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for criminal abuses of power . when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and security officials have surprised me .
if credit expands too rapidly , the fed can raise the interest rate it pays on its deposits . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed to have a combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expand the level of private-sector borrowing . that , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody really knows how this would work in practice . if credit expands too rapidly , the fed can raise the interest rate it pays on deposits . how high would the fed or the ecb be , for that matter , have to raise interest rates on deposit rates to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ?
the nature of financial risk continues to change in ways that are harder to forecast using backward-looking indices like those compiled by the g20 . policymakers at nanjing , for their part , promised to tackle this problem . they tasked the g20 with developing a set of indicators that signal when any country , including the us and china , was at risk of crisis . they called for a process designed to ensure that , when the warning lights flashed yellow , a country in question would be compelled to correct its policies . regrettably , such early-warning indicators are the better way to reflect the latest crisis than they are at preventing another one .
why should obama , a constitutional scholar , be backtracking on this path ? first , he dare not appear “ soft on terror . ” moreover , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of pictures depicting us-run sexual assault while doing nothing to silence the patriot act . second , perhaps he needs some effort to try guantánamo detainees in rigged setting , or even keep them out of trial forever : lawyers say that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the military that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are punished scenes . according to wells dixon , a attorney at the center for constitutional rights who represent certain detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling for torture practices , so it calls them “ classified sources ” and methods ” that can not be revealed in the court .
but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without triggering another dodd-frank lehman moment ” – that is , the type of global panic that culminated in the days of lehman brothers ’ default in september 2008 . “ panic ” is about panic , ” ” ” hoenig says , “ “ “ “ people ” and peoples , ” and nations generally protect themselves , and their wealth ahead of the rest of them . likewise , experts like hoenig , who led the cross-border dimensions of the bankruptcy , emphasize that it simply would n’t work for the corporate size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , the bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , the bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . if the us authorities – explicitly the us federal reserve and the fdic – actually have the power to compel banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . moreover , there are no international laws of bankruptcy to govern such matters , and to prevent asset extraction of grabbing .
paris – the central paradox of french politics was confirmed again on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to elect local institutions ( so called roiller général ) , the far-right national front gained 11 % of the popular vote but secured just 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation was a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago . yet le pen was replaced in january with her no less charismatic daughter , marine le pen . and with that change , the fortunes of the front may be changing , too .
with technical support like this , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable , sustainable national health-care system to be financed fully by domestic resources by 2019 . i am convinced that the global fund has been one of the smartest investments it can make . the global fund has brightened futures for hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia , a heroic achievement that is supposed to make donor countries ’ citizens proud . the united states has been the global fund as ’s largest backer , but many others have done its part . for example , australia has channeled a total of $ 410 million toward the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled nearly 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatments , 80,000 people to receive tb treatment , seven million of whom are cured of malaria , and 14 million bed nets should be delivered to families in need .
the united states allocates less than 1 % of its federal aid budget , but the average american believes that this figure will be thirty-one-times greater . new york – everybody – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers , has been able to learn from the rest of the world of its largest charitable foundation about effective development spending . prior to his electoral victory , america ’s president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries ” that hate the us , ” ” reflecting a widespread belief that aid needs to be cut . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation newspaper recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid for ring-fenced aid ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . and these lessons are particularly relevant at a time when some 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should be focusing only on domestic issues , and let recipient countries deal with issues as best they can ( aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) .
but the first fell prey to the long american-led occupation , and the second currently faces a us-led oil-export embargo instituted to throttle it financially . as a result , america ’s efforts to yield to the international effect of its new iran sanctions act represent a dual whammy for india . india , one of the world ’s largest aid donors to afghanistan , did not have a contiguous corridor to that country , and had to rely on iran for its access . first , it risks derailing india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly reliant on islamist-bankrolling shia oil monarchies – which include saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar – that have managed to ride the arab spring . second , further isolation from iran will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america is hastening its military disengagement while seeking to cut a deal with the taliban .
a crucial impediment to such a proposal is the requirement of congressional approval to increase america ’s quota share . this open up the possibility that american voting power could be reduced temporarily below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions , which would require the support of 85 % of imf members ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ votes . in order to secure american support , the council of representatives could commit not to consider several proposals requiring 85 % backing , without american approval . that guarantee could be incorporated into the reform package . it would remain in force until the american people were in a position to increase their quota and recover its voting share .
by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . yet , nearly six months into northern african upheavals , the number of arrivals to the southern island of lampedusa has now reached roughly 30,000 . the case for openness , inclusion , and variety in european societies has become much harder to make . the issue for italian officials , as for other governments concerned with recent migration flows , is the pressure on right-wing populist parties that no longer have to be defensive . italian officials privately proclaim that the current figures are not ungovernable .
germany ’s state state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which the oecd recently predicted will soar to about 4.5 % of gdp . moreover , germany has far greater inward stability than america ’s , for it does not have the problem of heavily indebted households that are now restricted in their borrowing . in the united states , the budget deficit in 2008 stood at 5.8 % of gdp and , according to the same oecd forecasts , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely the same economic stimulus as germany ’s , at 4.4 % of gdp . while that certainly impedes long-run economic growth and creates great structural problems , it also implies that state reacts exceptionally counter-cyclically and stabilizing economies , which benefits the entire world . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s national budget will amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 .
in the private sector , the bric index funds proliferated , even though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term – the “ next 11 , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” or n-11 – to the discussion . yet catchy thought die hard , and russia has moved to cement the current conception of the brics into an irreversible reality . just a few months earlier , the four had moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the global economic system ’s global rules . the ossification of the brics into a de facto global institution is moving forward dramatically in june , when the group ’s four leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first time the bric summit of the “ bric summit . ” that meeting produced a notable interlocking against the united states , because each member declared its desire not to hold the dollar as the global reserve currency .
his strategic defense initiative , intended to end a nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was in fact nicknamed the “ star wars . ” reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has had much to do with his capacity to dole out cowboy rage with movie-star charm , even though luck also played a role . after all , the victory of the cold war was aided , quite explicitly , by mikhail gorbachev , whose efforts to reform the soviet union hastened its collapse . with his well-rehearsed sunny disposition , reagan expertly played his role as us president , only to be found with decidedly hollywood flair . reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole out cowboy rage with movie-star charm , even though luck also played a role .
as with china today , there would have been some feeble international condemnation and some speculation about potential linkages between kazakh militants and exile groups , or islamic fundamentalists . rather than hearings on the urumqi crackdown , xinjiang ’s capital , perhaps we would be reading around the hundreds killed in the streets of almaty , making columnists intended to comparisons with the bloody shattering of ukrainian independence demonstrations the previous year . experts would have reminded us that kazakhstan was never a country , and that ukraine ’s claims to independence are historically doubtful . warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , the riots and death recently seen in xinjiang may have taken place in russia . substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you get the picture .
the answer is obvious : china has mounted a full-court press to change minds . renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , and plans were laid to establish new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . and chinese policymakers made this abundantly clear how unhappy they would be with detrimental decisions . so why was the imf flip ? in august , the exchange-rate regime was loosened slightly .
but foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not the reason for america ’s trade deficit . foreign governments ’ policies influence only how that deficit is distributed among america ’s trading partners . the real reason for this is that americans spend more than they produce . the overall trade deficit is the result of the saving and investment decisions of america ’s households and firms . the reason americans ’ saving and investment decisions drive the overall trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more of its total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
many modi supporters argue that demonetization ’s policy ’s troubles stem from inept implemented . but the truth is that its design was fundamentally flawed . judging by a blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no impact study had been made . there was no “ policy-skeleton ” ; no cost-benefit analysis was identified , and none of the evidence that an alternative policy options was under consideration . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that he created , modi discussed still further , moved india to an entirely “ cashless society . ”
washington , dc – terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – celebrated for its abduction of 276 schoolgirls in march 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and kidnappings of civilians . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists – orchestrating attacks on the museum and on beach resort . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , shooters belonging to an al qaeda affiliate radisson ’s hotel in bamako , killing 22 people . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – celebrated for its abduction of 276 schoolgirls in march 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and civilians assaults .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes whom they have produced . indeed , with the ratio of royals to commoners now approaching just one to 1,000 ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of steering the princely privileges , salaries , and job demand have never been more acute . royal perks include life-sinecures , and the domination of the civil service , enabling princes to award contracts and getting commissions at the top of their salary . so the saudi regime itself is divided , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are rising . as the older generation ages , this new generation has fallen to battle ahead of customers .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s ’s ’s ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to service our debts ? ” but nyerere ’s question still rumbles like a dark cloud over somalia . during the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory devastated harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency assistance for nutritional , health , and clean water provision . that was in 1986 , well before publicly sponsored campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burden .
the consequences – the sharp capital-flow reversals that now hit all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty . brazil and other countries that complained about “ hot money ” inflows , and about currency wars , ” the ” have now come to pass what they had wished for : the likely imminent end of the fed ’s qe . whether a correction in risky assets is temporary or a bear market will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will effectively abandon qe as quickly as it signaled . there is a strong likelihood that weaker american growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of us liquidity support .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . berkeley – since late 2014 , the us has been advocating a paradigm model of american governance , based on the tenth amendment of the american constitution , which specifies that “ “ the powers not delegated to the united states ” by a constitution or prohibited from it to states – are reserved to states respectively or to people .
europe is slipping back into recession only when recovery in the united states finally gains some traction . i moderated a session on the “ new context in east asia , ” a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , chile , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the exception of a japanese participant , all of the world ’s first-hand experience with the devastating asian financial crises of the late 1990s asian financial crises of the late 1990s . yet i took away another further conclusion from davos . i could not have resisting the temptation to draw asia into the discussion of europe .
brilliant scientific minds learned over many decades over which to “ read ” the earth ’s history to understand how a climate system works . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( such as satellites reading the detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our grasp . indeed , we are fueling dangerous change in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other pressures affecting food supplies and planetary quality . at the same time , the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message . and the message is stark : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry .
some commentators have started to point to different experiences in america and europe on the role of international law , in opposing the use of force , in settling disputes . because europe is militarily insignificant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy rather than military might to resolve disputes . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that americans chafe at constraints on their ability to take on america ’s military hegemony . some advocates of integration see a united europe as a strong partner . others are motivated by a desire to establish a center of rivals , however unrealistic this seems to be .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august tested europe ’s national security system , and the system failed to fulfill its key task of securing common security for the continent as a whole . the european union believes that the russian initiative was well grounded , and showed an interest in launching such a project . indeed , the european union believes that the russian initiative was well grounded , and showed an interest in launching such a project . even before the georgian crisis , russia had already seen an indispensable need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and roles . as a result , europeans must revisit their current security arrangements , analyze what happened and take this analysis into consideration in reforming those arrangements .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be met with violence ? that question has been provoked by the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a lie to protest a planned removal from the statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during a civil war . white supremacists held a lie to protest a planned removal from the recently uncovered public park of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during a civil war . a counter-protest was organized , and street fighting was broken off .
china ’s modest experiments with local elections have been supplemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” chinese officials used stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly using keypad polling stations and handheld computers to decide how the city should spend its $ 6 million public-works budget . the zeguo ’s exercise was considered immensely successful and has been replicated elsewhere in china . china ’s modest experiments with local elections have been supplemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” and wen has indicated that village choice may be extended to the next supreme level of government – township administrations – over the coming years .
the eu , japan , and the us would become even more efficient if they aligned their policies to block offenders ’ access to their markets , allowing legitimate operators to benefit from a “ supercharged ” level of access . european regulators have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access for countries with record-breaking illegal fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped support “ yellow or red carded ” countries to reform their fisheries laws . such efforts , for example , the trans-atlantic bluefin tuna catch – representing one of the most powerful tools for eliminating illicit fishing – would enable the use of traceability laws . eliminating rogue fisheries will help replenish marine life and secure the food and livelihoods of billions of people . working together could enable the use of the affordable , sophisticated network technologies for seafood traceability – the data and intelligence gathering that is helping pinpoint exactly where seafood comes from and when and from whom it has captured .
a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help create a fragile environment that spawn civil disorder , resulting in death and injury . yet urban poor , faced with bad housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood illnesses , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . indeed , many potential solutions stem from opportunities for innovation created by people ’s physical concentration and economic action . they are also likely to be hardest hit by natural disasters , such as those like the floods and hurricane mudslides that the devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . yet a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market cities could improve and preserve urban health by capturing its inherent advantages in concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , embracing successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes .
i have been harassed , and the campaigns to discredit me . the actions of the courts represent guatemala ’s first efforts to bring high military officials to trial . this was followed by a june 2001 court decision to set a date for trial , making it possible at last to present the evidence against these individuals . regrettably , trials have been delayed indefinitely , because defendants ’ lawyers appealed the case . our successes at myrna mack ’ matter is notable , but achieving them has proven difficult : police interrogator was assassinated ; the judges were under threat ; and witnesses have run out into exile .
proponents of geoengineering are right to speak of one thing : we face a climate emergency that demands both radical and urgent action . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made this plain starkly apparent in october 2018 , and it reinforced that point last month with its report on climate change and earth . some major economies – including canada , iran , the united kingdom , spain , and sweden – have now formally recognized the scale of this crisis . the question is whether that will translate into a commitment to taken the needed action . that certainly did not happen at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland .
finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia rings perfectly , in tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . mediating between various systems , seeking beyond the current incarnation in any eu country , was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s power with america ’s closest historical and cultural relationship with russia , is at the receiving end of the political cycle . it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , yet it no longer has the clout or power to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world or the rally europeans themselves . with both the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , as well as italy , spain , and poland , with no principal players in sight , the conclusion is quite simple : in part , by default , and in part because of its young president ’s sheer energy and imagination , this is france ’s moment .
john maynard keynes , writing regulations along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as a temporary , expedient feature of the global economy . so they contemplated only a “ thin ” form of globalization , with capital inflows strongly restricted to long-term lending and borrowing . the third path identified by the trilemma is to move away from national sovereignty altogether . they understood that it would require democratic countries to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s , owing to an inability or unwillingness to fail , is not wholly obvious which – one that – of leading governments to manage a rising tide of capital inflows .
over time , however , better attribution forensics may alter the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning may enhance the role of prevention and denial . moreover , because states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks , as well as the increasing prominence of internet entanglement to advance their own economic well-being , the cost-benefit calculations of “ cyberwarfare ” utility may change . over time , still , better attribution forensics may enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning may enhance the role of prevention and denial . in each case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be hard to sustain . but if this makes traditional arms-control covenants non-reality impossible , they may yet have established limits on specific types of civilian targets ( rather than guns ) and negotiate the rough rules of a road that stifle conflict .
even then , the us agreed to another four months of eu-russia negotiations , in order to ensure that no stone was left unturned away in the search for a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgian relations were followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence . in georgian europe , by contrast , russia had moved from support for territorial integrity to breaking out the country in just three weeks , relying completely on a military force to do so . likewise , its decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made it clear that it would veto the agreement proposed by un secretary general anders fogh rastii ahtisaari . in the georgian conflict , it was followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence .
more broadly , such a strategy could also start to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . the democracies that have constructed that order embody the values that are antithetical to authoritarians wield . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and a loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . fracturing for the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world . finally , trump ’s jcpoa ’s decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too heavily on america ’s national security and on prosperity .
on the environmental front , new institutions are emerging that focus their attention on harmonizing criteria and indicators , especially taking advantage of programs that certify sustainable sourcing of resources , as is the case with respect to forests and fisheries . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to take advantage of the expanding global information-technology sector to sway diplomacy . modern international diplomacy has become more and less reliant on the groups that make the rule of law , set norms , and collect technical data . a wide range of international deliberations on issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit such alliances . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to exploit the expanding global information-technology infrastructure to influence diplomacy .
even germany has , to some extent , fallen prey to populist forces . to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) – was formed . but it has taken more than five months to negotiate parties , with the largest opposition party currently the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party . in a country that appears to have been vaccinated against populism by its own nazi history , this is an especially distressing development . nor has france , to some extent , fallen victim to populist forces .
most important , the government appears to be backtracking on its commitment to allow for a binding referendum on opening to the oil sector , as well as on other “ transcendent ” issues . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue ; indeed , no one spends a small cent of mexican petroleum or gas if a recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex could be overturned in 2015 , as the opposition claims will happen . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is hardly a good idea . reelection is permitted only for a candidate nominated by the same party that they originally ran , enabling legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda to remain vague . likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by countries ’ framers ’s political and electoral reforms .
that a boom-bust cycle could have arisen without inflation should not have come as a surprise . regardless of how it may have taken , it began to be receiving some harsh blows a few years ago ( analogous to crises hitting exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the greatest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that over-stretched central banks that had relied on it had n’t paid enough attention to asset-price bubbles . central bankers had been telling themselves that they were giving asset markets all the attention they deserved by specifying that house prices and equity prices could be taken into account for the degree to which they implied information regarding goods for inflation . but this avoidance clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( which suggests , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy was too loose between 2003 and 2006 ) , it was neither preempted nor followed the upsurge in inflation .
that fine is $ 2,000 per employee , far less than the current average premium of $ 16,000 for employer-provided family policies . beyond providing insurance and paying a fine , a smart employer can pay fines for not providing insurance and boost employees ’ pay by enough to have more spendable cash after purchasing an “ subsidized ” insurance policy . with an employee ’s workweek down , employers can avoid having an individual mandate by cutting a employee ’s workweek to below 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time jobs ) . but , even for full-time employees , firms can opt for relatively small fines , rather than provide insurance . rather than incur the cost of an approved policy premium , a smart employer may pay fines fine for not providing insurance , and a growing employee ’ pay is sufficient to get more spendable cash after having borrowed in subsidized insurance policies .
indeed , he has gone on a counter-attack , notably against the bbc , that did not , in principle , foster a war with fervor . so far , blair has proven his resilience to such charges . the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , flbin cook and clare very short , want their own revenge , and so go on attacking blair for his own “ lies . ” so far , however , blair has shown the uncertainty now rallying blair like the “ vulture now feeling ” appetizers foul odwink of a lie ? or is it much more the question of a prime minister lose the trust of his people , including some of his ardent friends and allies ?
it adamantly opposed a few important and promising new human rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and a new anti-torture mechanism . still , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july by the united nations economic and social council . on the antitorture protocol , america sought to derail the creation of a universal system of visits to sites of detention , under an optional protocol to the convention against torture . here america found itself allied with some strange bedfellows that it routinely denounces as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . still , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july by the un economic and social council .
nor will it be sufficient simply to remember the historic contribution of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery in europe . what needs to be said is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as a european leader . it needs to lead in mobilizing europe to compel the global economy to work for its people , protect them from inequity and inequitable inequity . just as britain has once been waging europe in fighting fascism , promoting democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the global recession of 2008 , it should be led from within europe led from front ranks . britain , which has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should , once again , be ready to lead a progressive movement , spearheading eu action to fight climate change , resist protectionism , and spur sustainable growth .
the same goes for virtually any additional consumer-facing enterprise , from airline to diesel-owned suppliers . yet the expectation of reasonable consumer protection is built into our own economies . if a company sells you an automobile that claims , say , is inadequately tested , resulting in harm , the company pays a price . when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not just passive consumers , given that a company trafficked in its data . a restaurant can not evade responsibility to serving expired food simply by posting an indication saying , “ beware ” customers .
a implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who comes and go ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay in their home countries of destination , fueling increased support for anti-eu anti-immigrant parties . they may be granted “ humanitarian protection ” or be granted “ discretionary leaves to remain ” for a short time ; but then they can be deported as illegal migrants . so , what should be done ? the eu ’s asylum system is essentially unready to deal with a new generation of refugees who are ineligible under an existing framework because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution but from the disintegrating states of their one . a temporary residency status , in both europe or external , would seem sensible if a swift return to normalcy in refugee countries of origin was a realistic prospect .
as a result , few people have noticed how genuinely powerfully transformative her agenda was , how well thought it out and how audaciously it sought to handle it . she has been carefully studied not only for jackie , a comparison evident in her sheath dresses , ramboat collars , and a page-boy haircut – but also for the triumphs and failure of that other glamorous but underestimating stealth radical , princess diana . in other words , ms. obama manages to set himself up , dismally , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” princess di , ’s legacy in generating the iconography that has opened the way for tremendous socioeconomic change is grossly under-appreciated . in her brief lifetime , she has been often laudined for qualities ( her beauty and style ) , who are secondary to her adult work , and she derided for different aspects of her character ( her emotionality and chaotic personal life ) that have been equally beside the point .
instead , both are preoccupied with designing yet another round of stimulus involving far greater policy and policy risks . the image of the “ people ’s qe ” – that is , a more direct channeling of central-bank financing to the population – is gaining wider attention from both sides of the political spectrum . other risks are already giving way to headaches among central bankers . meanwhile , some of the pro-growth policies currently being mooted may , if not well designed , raise the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thus further complicate the task of central bankers . the protracted brexit process is upending the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-term impact of governments ’ global growth of weaponization of trade tariffs complicates the task for both the fed and the ecb .
clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as weapons against governmental parties . clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as weapons against governmental parties . in fact , he resigned only after winning re-election to a parliamentary vote . in fact , he also presided over many violations , a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 . nonetheless , the elections represented significant progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . in fact , china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been truly impressive .
yet , despite all of this , asean ’s long-term progress remains undeniable . its combined gdp has grown , from more than $ 95 trillion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 alone . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and europe to china and russia . yet , at its core , asean has been undeniable . over the short term , it appears to be moving like a crab – two steps forward , one step back , and one sideways .
much of modern economic and financial theory rests on the assumption that people are rational , so that they systematically maximize happiness itself , or , as economists call it , their “ utility . ” at the same time , people ’s goals are revealed simply by observing their economic activities . as a result , glimpses tend to be skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks the physical basis of it in brazil . under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists have based their research on any physical structure underlying thought and behavior , simply based on rationality . when samuelson picked up on the topic in his 1947 book the university of medicine , he did not look to the brain , but relied instead on “ revealed preference ” ” to me .
with no sign of rising inflation and growth remaining tepid and fragile , many are predicting chronic , sluggish growth , with some even worrying yet another global recession . central-bank balance sheets have vastly diminished , and policy rates have reached their “ near zero ” lower bounds . but policymakers have only one more choice : a shift to “ purer ” fiscal policies , in which spending money directly finances government spending by printing money – the so-called “ helicopter drops ” of prime minister justin trudeau . there is ample underwater , it seems , but a horse refuses to drink . the new money would circumvent financial and corporate sectors , and have gone straight into thirstiest horses : the middle – and the lower-income consumers – would be the middle .
it quickly became the “ wealthy versus poor ” story , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . over the next few months , newspapers and television stations ran with the narrative , as it snowpacked into national obsessive . alarmed by the public response , harbin magistrate the case reopened , only to have the suspended sentences confirmed when the case was closed down in that march . the case went to the local court , where a judge ruled it the charge of “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and ushered in a two-year suspended sentence . the judge ’s ruling spurred comments that he went easily on her because her husband was related to top provincial officials .
most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at the time – to upper twenties . but these countries ’ rising middle classes began to move their political systems on another front , a testament to the power that they are now wield . repeated military interventions in great muslim nations – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – impeded orderly political development . that power has surged for a few reasons , the most important of which is demographic . with over half of these countries ’ populations under the age of 30 , political development was able to move forward , despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
the goal is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the capacity of legislatures and its ministers to increase spending relentlessly . the rules need to impose limits on deficits , spending cuts and debt , and requiring transparency in a way that the public knows what to do . third on the ’s ’s list is increased investment in building up and maintaining infrastructure . if matched with a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility , countries could substantially boost economic growth . while latin american economies are doing well now through top-down reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying challenges .
second , countries must focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success , to avoid the allure of recent gleaming innovations . a new report from the pathways for the prosperity commission on technology and inclusive development , underpinned by the university of oxford ’s movatnik school of government , indicates how countries can address the problem at all . far too often , developing countries have seized on the new technologies – “ “ distribute tablets to schoolchildren ! ” – without dispensing with enough thinking about how they would be applied in particular national contexts . this has brought many disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable impact at scale . the report urges them to establish the “ digital-building blocks ” foundation ” – which includes core infrastructure and skills – to harness positive disruptions for education and health services .
this is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s ’s ’s economy could not continue to get 10 % larger each year . yet , globally , there is a difficult time to deny that the global economy lacks the momentum . and this is partly because trees are unable to grow forever : china may be no better off getting rid of the global financial crisis of its own . yet many countries remain poor enough to be captured by their strong growth potential , and many still others , albeit the rich , have not yet recovered from the global financial crisis . and it is partly for that reason that growth is unprecedentedly desirable : citizens may be better off with just fewer of it and more clean air .
exploiting the weapons of the anti-corruption drive and rising tide of nationalism ( the result of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , royalist-conservative movements implicitly point to extra-constitutional solutions to thailand ’s political standoff . in april 2009 , and again in april-may 2010 , the disenfranchised red shirts were emerging in bangkok ’s streets to demand new elections , but they were dispersed by the army at the time , with 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business-county , red shirts grew up in number , demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , after two years , pad ’s yellow shirts also proceeded to return to the streets to show their disillusion with abhisit . nowadays , pad ringed all of these politicians as corrupt and extol a virtue of the monarchy .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth over the years and decades ahead . some estimates show that companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . gartner , a research and consultancy , has estimates that ai-enabled ai tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in entrepreneurship value by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that ai could contribute as many as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . and ai will go far beyond saving , as automation will spur innovative , better forecasting , optimize operations , and lead to a better customer service . in any technological transition , those leading ai can not lose sight of human element ; there are some things even the brightest machines will never do .
because they ca n’t be good at everything , they must concentrate on what they best are at – that is , on their comparative advantage . as is so often the case today , it is not what you do n’t know , but on what you would mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries really do specialize , and that therefore they should specialize is one of those very wrong and dangerous thinking . but , while some ideas are counterintuitive or obvious , they can also go wrong and dangerous . they should make a few things go at once , and exchange it for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting the gains from trade .
the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . it may continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro . europe would be infinitely better off if germany made the definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , no matter the outcome ; indeed , germany might be better off as well . the situation is deteriorating , and , in the longer run , it is bound to become unsustainable . this is obviously merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until after the next election .
yet the bilateral relationship has deepened lately , exemplified in last week ’s june forum , resulting in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas ranging from agriculture to technology . the two leaders gush that the two countries are now on better meaning in the world economy than ever before . for russia , too , closer ties with china are undeniably appealing . following five years of international sanctions imposed against russia in the wake of its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a ostensibly welcomed reprieve . nonetheless , before putin places too much faith on xi ’s side , he would do well to recall the 1980 ’s soviet dissident song , “ the people are brethren ; i shall hug a chinese , ” ” ” ” which mocked ill-fated early attempts at a us-led chinese union .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . warsaw pact donald tusk will come to the end of may 30 november , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
you are not particularly keen to lend to them every day ; but if someone is prepared to pay , say , $ 200 to rent them on a dinner party , trouble might indeed be worth taking . or you may have a set of under-used dining room chairs . and you may post different prices for different times : $ 20,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over september , or $ 1,000 any extra time . so you can set a high price to offset inconvenience and make downside money . and , by wishing to pay , rezz.it would help collect without feeling cheapskate right .
fifth , the two sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance to signing the agreement . following high-level negotiations between china ’s vice premier liu he and the us trade representative ’s robert lighthizer this month , outstanding issues should have been on hold in beijing in early november . yet the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump may throw a wrench in the process . getting something done before thanksgiving will be critical to under-gird american business and consumer confidence during last christmas season . i am one of the few commentators arguing for every year that , notwithstanding the political master , both trump and xi ’s underlying interests make an agreement far more likely than not .
in an attempt to clarify matters , my colleagues and i have recently proposed an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ” we understand strategic autonomy as our ability to set one ’s own priorities and makes one ’s own decisions in foreign policy and security issues , combined with institutional , political , and material means to realize such choices , either in partnership with third parties or alone when needed . but both concepts are often used interchangeably , and are rarely precisely defined . european institutions like germany tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” whereas france favors the concept of “ european sovereignty . ” we also analyzed likely barriers , difficulties , and conflict should german and european policymakers decide to pursue that objective .
eradication will never be successful in afghanistan , as it destroys a single crop that grows in the south ’s harsh climate – and thus serves as the main source of revenue for millions of people . indeed , eradication of poppy crops not only damages local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals , but also fails : opium production last year was held at an all-time high . so , a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages the very communities suffering the most – in order to gain the backing of the country ’s deeply impoverished rural population . in september , the united nations office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation had ballooned to a record-high 60 % . in fact , eradication of poppy crops not only damages local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals , but also fails : opium production last year was held at an all-time high .
the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations envisioned ten years ago , and which need to be avoided . but the bush administration scares us all of us . its muslim faith counts one billion men and women worldwide among its adherents . just five percent have decried our civilization , and are prepared to engage in murder as a way to place the end of western domination . ninety-five percent of muslims , including a majority of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace , and put an end to the long humiliation of islam that only a advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make that possible .
but blindly sticking to principle would be a high-risk option for the ecb . indeed , it seems that a typical northern european country ’s creditors promote a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european debtors . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s actions as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting the bailouts and monetary financing of indebted eurozone members ’ debt . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what was known as the re-denomination risk ” of an economic newspeak for a breakup of the eurozone . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has been committing german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers , lacking their own parliaments ’ assent , to a potential obligation to bail out well whom , exactly , ?
such a partnership could lead trump to strike a deal with iran that is more than willing to confront sunni radicals in iraq and syria . by equating the struggle against isis to the soviet union ’s struggle against syria , trump has elevates the terrorist organization to status the great power . trump has also voiced his interest in cooperating with russia to take down isis , seemingly oblivious to the broader fact that russia ’s involvement in syria has focused on propping up assad ’s regime . this contributes to the perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , playing once more into the hands of isis recruiters . iran now encourages russian long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous efforts to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin for ending the civil war .
in most european countries , gross sovereign debt is exceeding the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) set by the stability and growth pact ( sgp ) . as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below the 2008 level . indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans search for a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and improved public services ( especially in health care and education ) , but also that they are ready to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of the 16,000 respondents said they favor changes to the status quo , even if this required some sacrifices . and there is a risk that the status quo is in urgent need of change .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for the progress that it has made since the end of its war against the 2009 separatist tamil tigers . all developing countries are facing myriad challenges , but that is especially so for a country that has been deeply mired in an acute thirty years ’ civil war . underlying wars , like the struggle with the tamil tigers , are , typically , social and economic grievances , such as genuine or perceived discrimination , and the government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately . brazil will need to set the priorities ; but success will require an overarching approach . its economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and the education and health statistics are impressive .
very few people at the vatican – indeed , in europe at large – had any real knowledge in these days of the vast industrial might of the united states . but any condemnation by the pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as his support for hitler ’s wartime efforts . the pope believed that he could either denounce both totalitarian powers or condemn neither . the western democracies , as most historians admit , played an comparatively minor role in the great military struggle . and the condemnations of nazism could be misconstrued as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle against stalin ’s christian regime .
data traveling instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries . data traveling instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries . conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-off room appears anywhere , continuing losses extend to entire networks . conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-off room appears anywhere , the ensuing losses extend to entire networks . i am convinced that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpasses , the roles that petroleum and the internal combustion engine played in the twentieth century .
governments in both countries shifted their scarce political capital and bureaucracy over the areas other than through trade liberalization . meanwhile , serious business reform did not begin until 1991-93 . yet , as their experiences reveal – together with the experience of so many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam – deep trade liberalization is hardly ever a harbinger of stronger growth and expanded trading early on . it is good to see the world bank as catching up to this simple reality . because both india and china were increasing their trade substantially , both are treated as globalizers by the world bank ’s criterion .
i felt a prodigious , restless power that i suspected that he could not switch off if he wished to recount my observation , were taken up in a map of vietnam , asking me to locate the areas of destruction . i said that i did , but that it was entirely in longhand in longhand . he suggested that i had done that but that it was in longhand in . i felt that the request was a typed copy , providing me with the office of a whole who was turned away . i felt that the request was a test – one that i was prepared to take , as i had implemented maps with me in the forward air-control aircraft .
currently , such types of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is slowly changing , particularly as more people in emerging economies link mobile networks to mobile networks , and government apps designed to collect and share farming information becomes more accessible . in west africa , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and precision of sms alerts to remote farmers . currently , such types of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . in mongolia , rural herders receive information concerning disease outbreaks to help them maintain their livestock ’ health .
brussels – as the world ’s finance elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape another clarion call to reverse a retreat from globalization . faltering trade is supposed to be the adverse trend that needs to be addressed . but the assumption is simplistic , at best . to be sure , there have been efforts to grasp the current slowdown . the problem lies in the lack of understanding of what has drove the rise of trade in recent decades .
finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation during a global monetary war . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for the world ’s major exporters – first america , then japan , and now europe . that is all the more significant in a disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as a reserve currency can take on an even larger significance than it did during the late 1990s . just as china had resisted the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 , a decision that arguably played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion , it needs to stay that course today . if china joined this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate its actions , and world financial markets would then find themselves subject to yet another source of severe instability .
and , even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , starting from relatively high deficits and government debt , they would start from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and ongoing debt . prolonging the current expansion will require enormous care , too . policymakers , particularly in the us congress , need to avoid major mistakes and minimize the risk of market crashes , while doing more to promote growth . america needs a well-targeted approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers and leading economists also need to be more attentive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , better protections for vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers should be expanded .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ surveillance , ” in which it monitors , analyzes , analyzing , and consults on each country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these periodic checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . these periodic checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . nonetheless , the increasingly complex policy challenges of a globalized economy demand a fresh glimpse of that process . this june , the imf our executive board did just that , reaching a wide-ranging consensus on updating surveillance to make it more focused and efficient .
first , a debt conference is required , with the creditors of southern european governments and banks forging part of the greek debt . lenders relinquishing some of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , which has now essentially replaced private-sector lenders . second , the eurozone members whose path to regaining competitiveness via prices and wages is all too long and grueling , and whose societies risk derived from the required imposition of austerity , will have to exit the monetary union temporarily . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial assistance , which would be badly needed for a long time , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness . there are four measures needed to do this .
this is important , because ukraine was only partly fulfilled imf agreements that it signed into law in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . finally , the eu should insist that ukrainian authorities cease all of the politically motivated criminal cases and release those torturing to policy crimes . these three steps would not resolve all difficulties in ukraine ’s civilian-military relations . selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s message . steps in this direction would significantly improve ukraine ’s relations with the eu and the us .
arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia is in america 's national interest , trump , soon after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . but trump 's enthusiasm ( and desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for a genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation such as that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and again in 1986 , when gorbachev mikhail khodorkovsky met in reykjavík , poland . putin has just reciprocated with an invitation to trump . putin has just reciprocated with an invitation to trump . for many members of the american security establishment , putin 's apparent handling over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – later this month , europeans will head to the polls to elect their 751 members of the european commission to represent 507 million people . to be sure , the european parliamentary election brings smaller shares of the electorate to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , the rate of participation over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in america ’s congressional elections . the manner in which an electoral campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in the making of europe ’s first transnational political space – truly a world of history . given europe ’s perceived remoteness and widespread frustration with europe ’s ruling bureaucracy , levels of participation and movement toward supranational politics are noteworthy .
nonetheless , the bombshell has not been encased in the metal , and terrorist attacks have been the only person who killed . highly personalized policy forms part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s theater of statehood , which keeps royals firmly in power . indeed , this policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as though the chief of the rbi personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at a garden party . but it is simply this highly personalized form of politics by which saudi royals have adopted with defecting al-qaeda from their members .
yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he was forced to leave government in 1974 during the yom kippur war . it was said of prime minister levi eshkol that he spoke of seven languages , all in yiddish . of banda ’s phrase , one could say that he spoke 10 languages , with all those with an oxford/cambridge accent . yet what appealed to the outside world were n’t always an asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics .
as a result , southern europe has adopted the economic configuration in which its wages , prices , and productivity levels make sense only so long as it spent € 13 for each € 12 that it earned , with northern european funding missing from the euro . but whether europe as a whole avoids lost decades of economic growth still hovering around the balance , and will depend on whether southern european governments can begin to regain competitiveness rapidly . northern europeans , with the money to make investments , were willing to lend on extraordinarily simple terms to those in the south eager to spend , and ample pre-2007 spending has made employers there willing to raise wages rapidly . northern europeans , meanwhile , have adopted wage and productivity levels that made sense only as long as they spent less than one european on each european they had earned . the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive was driven by market price signals , by the incentives for those signals created to their business entrepreneurs , and by what researchers played individually rational responses to it .
after all , the contest between the us and china extends far beyond trade . though america maintains its military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , led by bipartisan us support for a more confrontational approach . a global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risk , including the potential no-deal brexit and the populist gains in european parliament elections in may . of course , while trump does n’t save his allies , his primary target remains china . last october , america ’s vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of tech theft , predatory economic expansion , and us military aggression .
competitions among states and localities to attract large employers with tax and other subsidies operate particularly badly . recent high-level deals for foxconn and amazonian , in wisconsin and new york respectively , have blown up . recent high-level deals for foxconn and amazonn , in wisconsin and new york respectively , have blown up . they can answer and periodically revise themselves , only through an iterative process of strategic interactions between public agencies and private firms . a common theme that emerges from studying so-called place-based policies , for example , regionally focused employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the heavily contingent nature of achievement .
shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing , after decades of spectacular enlargement . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger than it is likely if policymakers have continued to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them , too . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . if china performs a sustained , comprehensive efforts to raise productivity , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of the financial crisis , and complete its shift toward a consumption-led , high-income economy with a large and affluent middle class .
london – as governments across western europe began bailing out banks and their leveraged depositors , eastern europeans were watching nervously slow , uncertain about what a global financial storm would mean for them would lead them to believe . now that the storm has hit , europe ’s fragile bonds of european solidarity are being put to the test . two countries – hungary and ukraine , too – already have called for major support packages . if the situation continues until the end of the year that can not be ruled out , many more countries might experience serious banking crises . several more could do so over the next month if frozen credit markets do not thaw .
some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods , especially sugar , are as addictive as cocaine - and heroin . but the big question facing health professionals today is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . a processed food industry claims that what you need is sugar to make a living ; we also need our sugar to live . some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods , in particular , are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . for example , sugary drinks is consistently the ingredient with top scores on the yale food-addiction scale , which measures people ’s meat-cravings .
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative ( polio ) delivered nearly $ 2 billion doses of polio vaccine to 575 million children in 94 countries around the world . a closely coordinated effort , amongst private and public-sector partners to deliver a oral polio vaccine to each child under the age of five , was key to success . globally , international donors and un agencies have worked closely with national governments , rallying the precision needs of massive polio immunization campaigns focused on reaching hundreds of millions of children in developing countries . in each country , partners – including the health finance minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , community groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental agencies – have counted and budgeted for every immunization campaign . each detail , from the numbers of bicycles and boats needed to deliver a vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , to the refrigerators and heaters needed to keep the potent vaccine potent , has been counted and budgeted .
in an increasingly deal-based world , a new g6 may offer the protection of a rules-based system . still , one wonders whether the eu is capable of placing a united front in mind . for example , in 2016 , south and east eu member states that relied on chinese investment managed to water down a joint eu declaration on china ’s territorial encroachments on the south china sea . this has long been russia ’s strategy , and it is now embraced by china and the us , too . in an increasingly deal-based world , a new g6 might offer the defense of a rules-based system .
meanwhile , corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems . indeed , it is the key issue in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given obasanjo ’s highly-minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and improve both economic efficiency and governance . evict is the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and improve both economic efficiency and governance . the harvard political scientist devesh kabur suggests why this is not happening .
florence – europeans , who are anxious to revive the continent ’s ’s ’s unification process , have lately turned their spotlight on the establishment of the united states . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and the european union ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . in fact , designing the american constitution and birth of an american people offers reasons to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be solved . many , however , dismiss the american precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are far too dissimilar from those encountered then . others , accepting that federalist principles might do very well in order to address the problems of a european common market , despair that “ europeans ” who might bring about this new political structure is missing .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have undoubtedly spooked the authoritarian bulk of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has shown himself to be in control , even preying for pictures in a tight leather gang . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , need to keep putin up at night , or they would not be dissipated with such unabated . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to the frontier province of khorasan , and the arab ization of persia began , with persians occupying arab names and converting to islam . the mass conversion of islam among persians was just the first step toward establishing the incipient caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslims . the effort by various forces seeking to dominate or restore a caliphate is a recurring theme throughout islam ’s history . by 651 , almost all of the major urban centers in persia were placed under arab control , adding momentum to the process . at various times in history , caliphates expanded across asia , africa , and parts of europe .
now , all of these short-term factors have been exhausted , and a brezhnev-like period of economic stagnation has started . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” ” ” ” in russia in the coming years : as oil prices having plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , they had recovered and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel , russia will return to the stagnation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . ironically , from 2010 to 2012 , gdp growth , while averaging a respectable 4 % , turned out to have fueled a post-crisis recovery , followed by a further rise in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy is capable of a 5-6 % annual growth . yet the russian government ’s unwillingness to combat corruption and strengthen the country ’s law institutions reflects a perverse – yet stable – policy equilibrium .
others , including mainstream economists like daair turner , former chair of the uk national financial services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : outright cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . following this logic , in the uk , the labour party has proposed agreement on a “ people ’s qe , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” whereby a central bank would print money to finance direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal facility , ” which would have allowed a central bank to finance large fiscal deficits in the event of a deep recession . left-wing proponents of so-called “ high-tech monetary theory ” argue that larger sustained fiscal deficits become sustainable if monetized during periods of economic slack , owing to the absence of a runaway inflation . despite their differences in terminology , all of these proposals are variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits , monetized by central banks should use to stimulate aggregate demand in the event of the next slump .
most developing countries , i know , spend too little money devising good projects . when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often extremely difficult , because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decisions or actions go hand in hand . so , suppose that there is a time-honored toll road project , concession contracts are ready , and companies offer on it . the bidders need a roadmap for two phases : engineering , procurement and construction ( epc ) , together with a longer phase of operation when the toll receipts are collected to recover incurred costs and the expected returns . there are plenty of uncertainties at both ends , but especially during the epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project .
with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction pledges , one might think that the global push to address climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the strength of financial pressure to effect change ; nor can we ignore how local governments and the private sector act where national governments have not . besides , there is a glaring enterprise rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and ratings agencies increasingly re-regulate investment portfolios over potential stranded assets , ” as well as ” ” models like oil and gas projects that will become outdated as more “ renewable-energy ” becomes commercially viable . many existing fossil-fuel projects already hold shorter life spans than was previously expected ; and financial portfolios , which rely heavily on such assets , are increasingly at risk of devaluation . yet , to obtain and hold entire governments on board , the low-carbon transition needs to be inclusive .
in practice , this movement also has incentives for little more than fear of change . recently , a group of parliamentarians ( quite a large one – 30 of them deputies ` ) left the majority post-solidarity democratic party and formed a new " polish people 's party with the motto that the ruling coalition campaigned in " the service of brussels . " defend " family values , whatever that may mean , do . but here people who were active in the old " solidarity " movement " -- for them an inter-community movement rather than individual , a movement for public rather than private freedom -- form the new bloc of euro-antagonists . a less agressive anti-european anism comes from a predilection for old values , like privilege and virtue .
an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit the facts recently emerged from the paul woolley center for studies of dysfunctionality in the capital markets at the london school of economics . researchers there argue that in fragile speculative industries ( and finance was surely in that category in recent years ) , it is difficult for investors to keep track of those who manage their money . they may see short-term returns , but they fail to comprehend very well how those returns are created . that may be part of a narrative , but competition for talent and for customers appears intense between investment banks and others , yet they have collectively been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of those customers . by definition , managers may be demanding a higher and higher return in a upturn .
the united nations is consistently ranked among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , including by the insead ’s worldwide innovation index . but , on the world peace index , it ranks 88th out of 153 countries . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , respectively , ranks fifth , and sixth in the oecd ’s innovation perceptions index , but just 28th and 29th , respectively , on the un peace index . conversely , bhutan ranks among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not even make it on the indices of innovation . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability are severe enough to produce a cumulative breakdown of the rule of law and order substantially hindering creativity and innovation .
but merkel still defends weber , and , with the exception of macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders are reluctant to countenance the european parliament on an spitzenkandidaten issue . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – who is not from the epp , but who is , in the sense , the liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , whom the epp but is not an entirely spitzenkandidat . finally , the election gives way to a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly . if the council succeeds in ruling out weber and his populist supporters , macron will assert this as a success .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become the united nations secretary-general , following kofi annan ’s often-often-widespread tenure . annan has inspired around the world with his great diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world and drawn the attention and resources away from crisis regions and critical longer-term problems like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy access , and access to water . with recent elections in the united states , and the rise of asia rooted in asia ’s global clout , there is an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention to the most critical challenges facing our planet . in addition to the longstanding challenges of poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and beyond . recent attempts to leverage developments in these countries through threats and sanctions , and at times of war , have failed .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all on trade policies during the 1930s greatly aggravated the great depression today . that is why the catastrophic free-for-all on trade policies during the 1930s greatly aggravated the great depression . an outfit called the global trade alert ( gta ) took headlines , raising alarm bells about what it calls an “ gta protectionist ” juggernaut . many complain that something similar , if less glamorous in scope , takes hold today . the gta ’s most recent report identifies not fewer than 192 separate protectionist measures since november 2008 with china as the costliest target .
given this , why not have a system in which host countries and localities share the cost of social benefits for migrants ? host countries could have assumed responsibility for administering benefits like unemployment insurance , sick pay , and pensions . and countries of origin could continue to offer benefits that do not related to job-related relationships , such as child allowances staying at home and benefiting from migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrive . such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it reduces the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism , and gives britain no reason to reconsider their exit decisions with their heads held high . if people are going to a country earning higher wages , the workout of a distribution gets larger ; but , if it delivers on welfare benefits , the pie get smaller .
it has become common knowledge in europe that the continuing crisis will either erode the eu or bring about a political union ; and that without solidarity-based solution to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , no country can save the eu . no alternative – and certainly not statusstatus – will work . the price of a monetary union ’s survival and that of the european project are still more of a community : banking union , a fiscal union , and all political union . those who oppose this because they fear common accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and the loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s renationalization – and thus its exit from the world stage . at the same time , what is needed has a long time to be done .
the eu is not deprived of instruments under its own – the so-called “ structural funds ” ” that finance investment in poorer regions – but it has no strategy for deploy them . so the outcome of the months of debate might well be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” for investors , the reform process may look impossibly long and hesitant . so the outcome of months of debate might well be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” more bugs will need to set aside , including the new bugs that have found in the fixes .
as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often perceived as a homogeneous mass , where all students could be educated under the same pedagogical approach . its schools finance local communities , and work within the framework of a national curriculum designed by poland ’s parliament and government . but , for the same reason , schools need to satisfy individual children ’s needs and capacities in ways that produce learning a adventure . though educational possibilities and structures have gradually been diversified , a major shortcoming of most european education systems remains : students have far too little choices , and teachers , when they want to remain in the profession , must adhere to severely compartmentalized pedagogy . other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying at the top of their studies .
to break the poverty cycle , a country needs investment in its children ’s future , rather than in the incarceration of 2.3 million people per year , many for nonviolent crime that finds itself symptoms of poverty . their children grow up without a parent at home – and without hope and support . the children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; so , too , frequently , end up in prison or suffer violence or early death . from that moment on , in and out of a prison system , they are left with little chance of ever getting a legal job that affords them to escape poverty . what is mad about this is the fact that an america has missed the obvious destination – and missed it over 40 years .
colombia ’s policymakers have been hoping that , if adopting the best-practice legislation and governance laws , somebody will come . and , if not , they may still bask in the international accolades they received from foreign-owned entities . in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not become the underlying issue , owing to a reasonably open immigration policy that allowed the country to exploit the talents that colombia , among others , was incapable of holding . the comparison between the two approaches has been stark . the nonresidential construction boom that this has created helped not only to absorb the labor force left from rural areas , but also to achieve a remarkable reduction in inequality .
globally , countries that have spent too little – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend , consume , and import less . nonetheless , there is now massive public-sector retrenchment in advanced economies , with enormous budget deficits and public-debt accumulation fueled by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and immense costs of socializing the economy ’s missing woes . at best , the us is confronting a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in advanced economies , as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments begins to feed through to consumption and investment . but over-saving countries – china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling expenditures by deleveraging countries . thus , recoveries from global aggregate demand will be weak , pushing global growth much lower .
new york – today , the international community is being charged with thinking once again about how to overhaul the financial sector , and to minimize the risk of similar disaster in the future . previous demands for stricter regulations have came to nothing , owing to the opposition of the financial sector . the current crisis , the fall of wall street , brings to mind how to reform the financial sector , and to minimize the risk of similar disaster in the future . surprisingly , the global dimension of this crisis also has its roots . up to now , a major part of the problem has been eu countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate .
in advocating the disestablishment of both religious and secular right-wing orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the importance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . it arises from the infinite prominence of this great debate that the state should wish to be neutral . indeed , unlike the militant liberalism of france 's traditions , this neutralist philosophy strives to keep out either side in an ongoing culture war from using the nation ’s coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in struggles over men ’s souls . like may or may not be , the liberal state should be neutral on such issues altogether , leaving it to every citizen to determine whether it should cede its financial support to the roman church or one at prague . after all , if state ostentatiously takes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid silencing the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world is facing yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . the old , represented by the united states , has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , are again on the rise . a new , sounder multilateral system needs to be invented . while international cooperation on regulatory reform is hard to achieve on piecemeal , it can be attainable in a grand bargain that rearranges the entire financing order . following the path of least resistance will lead to a gradual disintegration of the international financial system .
mario monti , italy ’s european union commissioner for competition policy , is frequently in the spotlight , typically in popular acclaim . over the years , he has championed important victories restricting state aid to entrepreneurship , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . within a couple of weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private parties may appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided monti ’s resolutions proposed corporate mergers . today , however , the benefits derived from his achievements are under threat , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . with a competition case against the software giant microsoft seemingly in its offing , monti will need to redesign his footing quickly .
worse still , these tragedies were avoidable ; we knew that these crises were approaching . drought and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with appropriate planning and adequate resources , can be averted . but , time and time , humanitarian assistance in africa came short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980s . then , as now , food insecurity was predictable ; we knew that these crises were approaching the earliest hunger pangs . so many of the proud and dignified humans were bereft of their livelihoods , forcing their reliance on a single tiny food a day , or anything at all .
the bottom chessboard includes transnational relationships that cross borders beyond governments ’ control – everything from drugs to infectious disease to climate change to transnational terrorism . here the degree of close civilian cooperation is also important , affecting a country ’s attractiveness or soft power . on this board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . on this bottom board , there is also an important degree of close civilian cooperation , influenced by a country ’s attractiveness or soft power . no government can control outcomes without the cooperation of others .
translation : a orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . making matters worse , they have both the motive and the opportunity to become even bigger ones . and because these big financial institutions are by whatever meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they may borrow even more cheaply than they would otherwise would have done . this form of government subsidy amounts to a huge implicit subsidy to big banks . at the same time , as we allow for or near cross-border banks to keep their current scale , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate their failures .
and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil-fuel subsidies , it would contribute to an eventual phase-out of a leadsafe sector with no place in a climate-secure world . fortunately , the world will not need to wait for moral suasion to carry the day . in the philippines , typhoon survivors delivered a complaint to the netherlands ’ human rights commission , calling for investigations of big fossil-fuel companies their responsibility to trigger climate change . the dutch group urgenda , almost 900 co-plaintiffs successfully sued the dutch government , are forcing italy to adopt tighter climate policies . fossil-fuel companies and governments are already under intensifying legal pressure .
several steps are needed to support a massive increase in internet use in these other locations : * telecommunications liberalization , including the entry of new providers of private utilities , is critical to bringing down costs and spreading benefits . a few years ago , for example , the chip-maker national semiconductor has managed a complicated delivery system linking its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its global consumer network . it decided out-source that operation to federal expressed in the first place , exploiting a sophisticated on-line system for managing global deliveries and selling . as a result , the national semiconductor has seen its de-regulation delivery cycle to buyers of four each week , and distribution costs have been slashed from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of all sales . a few steps are required to support a massive increase in the use of the internet in these other locations :
as a result , the possibility of so-called “ helicopter money ” has been increasingly discussed . but the debate about it is riddled with confusions . if governments run larger fiscal deficits and financing this non-interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly grow , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . it is often argued ( at times even the same time , that monetary financing of fiscal deficits would not stimulate demand , because people would fear a future “ inflation-targeting ” tax . this is simultaneously argued ( sometimes equal people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people would fear a future “ inflation tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers declared bankruptcy ten years ago , it had suddenly become unclear who owed what to whom , unable to service their debts , would have gone down next . in hindsight , the complacency in the run-up to the crisis was clearly unconscionable . and yet little has changed in its aftermath . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s turned into another great depression . the result was that interbank credit markets have been discredited , wall street panicked , and firms have gone under , not just in the united states but around the world .
for some , that is a cause for ambivalence . aside from just a few small particulars , the consensus prevails , the consensus prevails . coalition partners disagree about how to sort out this question . nonetheless , they have agreed that within the year that a commission would give different options and models to protect the rights of the german parliament , while providing assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . should the spd vote on the coalition agreement in early december block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but not completely out of the issue ) , disputes over security and defense matters would not be the culprit .
much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists who object to technology on “ moral ” grounds . they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by members of the scientific community over the past two decades . indeed , every new gm crop variety needs to be met by rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . badly needed biosafety laws in nigeria and uganda , for example , have already gone ahead . moreover , the world health organization has acknowledged that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by members of the scientific community over the past two decades .
the regulators ’ call to the isda for voluntary action will not amount to much if this is simply a call to the derivatives industry to act against its own funding interests . perhaps regulators will find that they must require that the regulated have the desired contract provisions . that solution will remain incomplete , but not all of the derivatives traders are regulated by financial institutions , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent the contract and the requirement . if coverage is not complete , one might expect the regulated to complain that they have been placed at competitive disadvantage . in fact , regulators may well need to turn to failed laws to fix the problem .
the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who used “ words , ” signs , or visible representation … to excite polish disaffection against the government ” might have been charged with sedition , potentially condemned to life imprisonment . but even that was inadequate for britain , ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , made it all the more progressive than sedition law in england . sedition was thus explicitly intended as an instrument for the terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was one of his prominent victims , if still far from his last . in other words , no free speech to indians is a union for themselves . the british concluded , in the words of britain ’s lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ sedition law , ” which is adequate to a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and faith , may be inadequate or , in some respects , unsuited to a country under foreign rule .
seoul – china – already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturers , and international-reserve-holder – is poised to override the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured in purchasing-power-parity terms ) this year . last month , china and g20 other asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish themselves as a new multilateral development bank ( aiib ) , the asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) . indeed , a country ’s days after deng xiaoping ’s injunction to hide the brightness and cherish obscurity ” is long gone . it is now tapping its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . after decades of actively participating actively in international economic institutions – including the g20 , the imf , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to establish a new world order .
new free-trade agreements are giving european economies access to major markets worldwide . and enlargement has reinvigorated europe ’s security substantially . achieving a global climate agreement promises not only to preserve the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . indeed , progress on the single market has helped to drive competitiveness more competitive . these are , on every reasonable basis , remarkable uk-based achievements .
the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on the flow of semiconductor ip to china and on the acquisition of semiconductor companies by chinese investors . a special semiconductors report , vital to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness , – for president barack ’s obama ’s ’s ’s council of advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) , sets some answers . a report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , proposed that america work with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and intensifying export controls and inward investment restrictions . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls and inward investment limits on the basis of china ’s own behavior . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand america ’s jurisdiction of america ’s foreign investment committee ( which reviews and acquisitions of domestic companies by foreign entities ) to a broader range of investments – including chinese venture capitalists and private-equity investments in american start-ups – is consistent with this recommendation .
our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be taken hostage by our continuing dependence on fossil fuels . business-led innovation and market-based solutions may drive a decisive global shift , from crippling fossil-fuel dependence to more efficient renewable-energy systems . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles that require little or no fossil-fuel resources and increase the share of renewable energy in electricity provision could ensure a lot hotter and a less comfortable world of 2050 that the ipcc warns against doing not materialize . four decades ago , it was not only that countries endured the immediate economic impact of the opec embargo ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortage to spur innovation . the rocky mountain institute ’s reinventing robin hood analysis shows that such a thing is achievable , offering market-driven strategies for powering an american economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 – unfocused on heavy reliance on heavy oil , coal , or nuclear energy .
on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . captured uranium was not something weapons-grade ; instead , international inspectors removed all of the sensitive material from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( thus was absent when the united states invaded in march 2003 ) . but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities , and served as an important reminder of nuclear reactors ’ vulnerability in warsaw . luckily , two missed the targets , and israel managed to intercept the third . but what the international reaction , if any , would have been initiated had the asean become highly enriched ?
moreover , the september surge in oil prices , raising fears of another negative growth shock , has since receded . america ’s economy is a reflection of that dichotomies . indeed , even with otherwise anemic economies like germany , household consumption remains robust in most major economies . while dollar appreciation has taken some pressure off non-us economies that depend on exports or foreign capital , it has heightened the risk of an open-ended currency war . at the same time , rather than all the indicators are gloomy . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most major economies .
( others became “ business ” leaders , but only steve became someone known and admired by millions – including the romanian waiter at the british airways lounge where i am voting now . ) i first met steve back in 1979 , or at 1980 ’s , at ben rosen ’s personal computer forum . it had inspired widespread public enthusiasm for the quality of its products , as well as for its personal charisma . for a certain reason , it was held at the “ playboy resort ” of lake geneva ( never again ! ) . in the personal-computing service – which moved from bulky apple ii to the sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) – steve were the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . with the exception of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – the american economy grew at just 2.1 % a year , on average . cambridge – america ’s ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , as was the 3 % average rate in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . given that what accounts for the most recent acceleration ?
in closed-list systems , candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , male , female , or vice versa . in open-list systems , they would have an additional 50 % quota quota quota . but if these countries substitute their open lists with closed-door lists , more than three percentage points of women elected should , by all others , remain equal , rising by about 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( resulting from about 20 % of gdp in systems that are currently not subject to effective quota legislation . ) nor can they be predicted with any accurate impact of increasing the quota percentages in open-list systems that currently have effective quota legislation .
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . for example , frustrated that the us congress had denied him all the money that he intended for his phantasmagorical wall along its border with mexico city , he simply plucked the money from funds allocated to the us department of defense . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump attempted to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s interference with russia . moreover , trump has sought to steer governmental contracts to favored firms , or away from those he dislikes . he also flouted the constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments , of money or any personal benefit from foreign governments that do business , sometimes extravagant stakes , in his very various hotels and dormitons – and those found other ways to monetize the presidency .
at times , debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps overextended over the longer run , giving the debtor country time to reclaim the ability to make payments . by the end of 2001 , argentina had defaulted on its debts . as debt becomes unsustainable , several potential bargaining outcomes occur . sometimes , creditors agree to exchange old bonds for new ones , giving them a lower face value or lower interest payments . few governments refuse to pay at any cost to themselves .
the response in turkey – where as many as 50 possible cases have appeared in eastern ukraine – is instructive . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china – where a pandemic strain will most likely originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure . this tipping point ’ strategy is highly cost-effective , at best . but a strategy can be “ cost-effective ” only when feasible . though ring prophylaxis may be working in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich may parts of the world where influenza pandemics begin , the probability of success approaches zero .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited some of the most rapid economic improvements in human history , and with it the emergence of a large and growing middle class . that has made china an essential trading partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies besides inserting it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . moreover , as china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , it has become a lot of dollars – but also of other major currencies – owing to its large trade surplus with the us in recent decades . it remains the world ’s vital assembly center for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cellphones , which enables lower prices for the world ’s consumers . it is helping to finance other countries with trade and domestic investment ( many of its beneficiaries have large budget deficits that have collapsed national saving below domestic investment ) .
history offers little guidance as to whether the warring countries would avoid hurting their nuclear sites . in the balkan conflicts of the 1990 ’s , wars were neither fought nor within countries with nuclear reactors . in the balkan case , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško national nuclear plants as part of a threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists have called for attacks to release radioactive elements . even ukrainians born after 1986 understood what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by fighting might look like . for ukraine ’s government , angst is real .
over the past two years or so , saudi arabia has made itself starkly clear that it will not so easily cede its market share – to anyone . it has pursued a campaign to recoup its former position not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , gas-liquids , and petrochemicals . over the past two years or so , saudi arabia has made it starkly clear that it will not ease its market share – to everyone . it has engaged in a campaign to recoup its former stature not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , gas-guzzling liquids , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , backed by a surge of production focused on pushing out weaker competitors .
this is the kind of economy that i hope that china will develop . indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . what kind of economy would offer this good life ? history suggests that it would be one of entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities , and exercising their initiative to experiment with novel things ) and innovative people ( imagining new things , develop new concepts into commercial products and methods , and marketing them to potential ) . participants in such a good economy would range from grassroots society to the most advantaged . indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than money .
as a recent article in the financial times highlights , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity growth , education and health care , technology is already reducing the demand for skilled labor . ( while perhaps that is not automation altogether due to law , the supermarket has just shifted some of the work of customer shopping . ) for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for better-paying jobs . but , as it stands , technological progress is now displacing such good jobs , too . a wide swath of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and irreducibly human action may be the future casualties of technological change .
in february , the roma father and his five-year-old son were killed outside their home in front of budapest . in april , killers gunned down the roma factory worker the way that he went to his business . the home then was burned down to the ground in italy . in august , shoot-out invaded the impoverished roma whittling down , maria balogh , shot her down to death , injured her more than 13-year-old daughter . last november , a roma couple was murdered in northeastern hungary .
the processes of twenty-first-century globalization are far too sudden , erratic , and uncontrollable to rely on static measures such as tariffs . the information revolution is supposed to be protected by individual workers , rather than by individual jobs . the information revolution has transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not undo this . with american workers already already competing against robots at home and against low-wage workers abroad , disrupting imports will simply create more jobs for the robots . a more rational approach would embrace universal realities in the world .
iran ’s results of the recent municipal elections have been humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . but hitler ’s power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s hold over iran . hitler had come close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had that , whereas iran very well could . he very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is another latter-day hitler , and is iran , the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? these elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany , too .
the second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decisions should be decentralized whenever they are allowed to occur . this ensures that local and regional preferences are viewed as transcending effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . but this requires a rich reservoir of ideas , not a unified , unified approach . the last principle is congruity ; to assure that decision-makers are accountable to the outcomes they make their decisions . this means that , as long as european electorates are insisting on retaining national sovereignty over fiscal or economic policymaking , shared responsibility will be a pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies have been based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble reflecting a policy coalition of two major powers : super-wealthy and evangelical christians . the super-rich had one over-riding objective in joining bush ’s ruling coalition : tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the richest households . evangelicals had been brought in by so-called family values , ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and the promises of active government support for religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups for social services that they provided locally and internationally . as those policies fail , global financial markets react negatively , adding uncertainty to the global economy , with little relief in sight because america enters an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . the bush team believed that they would eventually rebalance tax cuts for the wealthy with reductions in government spending ; but they never explained this to the public .
in order to augment purchasing power and stimulate consumption , tax cuts on low – and medium-to-income households are essential . to be sure , eu member states should establish the concrete form that such economic stabilization programs are taking for themselves . after all , some very large eu countries are on the verge of recession . japan in the early 1990 ’s waited too long to act and miss the right opportunity to enact countermeasures , which is one reason why japan has yet to recover from its long stagnation . now , it will be under pressure from public infrastructure investment ( for example , by vastly expanding europe ’s railroad networks ) , together with climate protection and environmental technologies .
spending by households and firms , which is estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , a reflection of 3.5 % annual growth . furthermore , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will total at least $ 150 trillion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to the strategic resources of emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well positioned to play a pivotal role in renewable energy . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe .
a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . an evident potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov has been passed over , and has since been relegated to his role in russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” ” overseeing the environment and transport . despite his years in office , medvedev is still recognized more for his fancy ties and expensive watches than for his executive actions . a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb operative . yet ivanov is far taller than putin , who , at any rate , achieved only the rank of colonel .
cambridge – government programs to prop up retirees run into trouble in any country because of rising life expectancy and the rising ratio of pensioners to taxpayers . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , for america ’s “ trust fund ” ( “ ” ) system of welfare funding will generate crises once the fund has been depleted . the problem is uniquely different in the years ahead , as adverse demographic trends raise the fiscal burden of funding pensions and health care . though the possibilities at this time will be different from those faced by other governments , policies to avoid america ’s crisis are relevant to other distressed countries facing populations that are facing an aging population . here ’s how the american system works : under legislation , a payroll tax is drafted just to fund retiree benefits .
lula remains popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows genuine sympathy toward the less affluent , and also with foreign investors , because he has always tempered his radicalism to suit economic reality . most recently , he has criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets because of his failure in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with a common sense needed from someone who governs . ” indeed , while the scandals stirred up the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , and investors continued to pour money into the stock market . one reason for this is that corruption scandals have provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . newspapers and tv commentators have remained tireless in public reporting on the scandals , helping to demonstrate to brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is sufficiently stable to withstand open criticism .
yet , by that time , the current constitutional provisions had been followed . true , morales resigned when the military told him it , and after agreeing to back protesters ’ demands for a fresh vote . in response , the bolivian army had arrested none when it wanted it . the constitutional court that made it possible for morales to run believed the presidential succession in law ; timely elections were promised ; and the military did not assume power . the two institutions of american states ’ electoral observation missions that he himself invited and whose terms it accepted then refused to certify the result .
this is the sort of free democratic spirit operating outside the convention that the elections will determine the government . and it is moving very fast in shaping the crisis as a whole . it has fueled enormously by some form of social media ( itself a thoroughly revolutionary phenomenon ) . and they resent – on the front lines of mobilized in the streets – any hint that one clique at the top is barring handsomely from their way . it is not always a consistent or rational way of doing so .
financial globalization , in particular , played havoc with old regulations . countries were obliged to pledge only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . this left them free to construct their own versions of national capitalism , as long as they obeyed a few simple international rules . the current crisis demonstrates how far we have come from this pattern . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism with few safety valves , it had given rise to an explosive mix .
at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics must be strengthened . for decades , america and saudi arabia have had the balance of asymmetry in which the us has depended on them as a swing producer of oil and depended on the us for ultimate military security . power arises from the asymmetry in interdependence . you and i may depend on one another , but if i depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power increases . so , even if america did not have other interests in the middle east such as israel or nuclear non-proliferation , the shifting balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to set free of american military expenditures – which some experts estimate run to $ 50 billion a year – in order to protect oil routes in the region .
indeed , europe ’s populist leaders ’ parochialism are a major reason why the eu is failing to maintain broad-based public support . at the national level , insufficient political will has resulted in a craven taking advantage of referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands vote for the eu-ukraine association agreement last april , and a brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , polish voters have stated , “ no ” results that can be blamed , particularly in the uk , upon national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for their domestic problems . the lack of a historic vision among the current generation of political leadership is undermining the shared sense of purpose needed to compel eu citizens to feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly objects of deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions whether “ hungarians and poles ” want precisely the same issues as the germans and the french .
florence – british politics had always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . back in the 1970s , britain was where a blurred postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high levels of employment and substantial wage growth . that model was based politically on creating consensus and , economically , on keynesian demand management . today , the collective collapse has been of the “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which the party that styled itself as “ the new labour ” has embraced a powerful role for markets – particularly for largely deregulated financial markets .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . palestinian religious landmarks are attracting growing numbers of religious tourists from around the world each year .
still , mayors across europe have responded more moderately , feeling , and flaunting solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . embassies handed warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; tv news stories have shown hours of burning cars . as french cities have ablaze , other countries have been harrowing in judging france . other countries ’ governments seem to have been struggling to distance themselves from the problem , fearing a contagion from which they know are likely to spread . they know that their cities are also vulnerable to urban violence , to the extent that they have pockets of high social inequality , including the marginalized and the disenfranchised young .
and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain in order to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty – and thus avert a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor under the global food , energy , and mineral prices . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity , defined as the amount of commodity consumed to power capacity to generate gdp , falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will become larger this year than it was at the start of the last year . meanwhile , supplies of most commodities forecast to grow by no more than 2 % annually in real terms . to be sure , intensity of use has declined for some commodities , like gold and nuclear energy ; but for others , such as aluminum and coal , rising since 2000 , or as far back as copper and oil , declines markedly or stalled on high levels . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at an even higher pace than that of global supply , prices will rise .
payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to substantial shortages of staple goods . in the automobile sector , defaults exceeded $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transportation services due to a lack of spare parts . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy . earlier this year , payment arrears on food imports led to substantial shortages of staple goods . earlier this year , he had been diagnosed with cancer cancer , leading to substantial shortages of staple goods .
to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners by a revolutionary process that does not urgently challenge it . will it have to get its bomb , too ? after all , turkey is already a well-functioning democracy . likewise , while egypt is in the midst of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also intends to recapture a more visible and influential role , both within and between the palestinian national movement ( s ) and in the region as a whole . the “ middle empire ” ” ” ” from the rest of the world will not remain a “ sleeping giant . ” to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners by a revolutionary process that does not urgently challenge it .
if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant the idea that a constitution is one ’s declaration of aspirations , rather than a set of enforceable legal prerogatives . the desire to limit or protect some forms of human activity from the free market may be understandable , particularly in a country like poland , where the free market still has an unfamiliar animal . but , in a situation in which many community fields -- such as education , health , and social services -- require quick and radical change , unleashing free-market forces to do its work offers the sole plausible avenue for change . these state-controlled privileges have little to do with justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption . state-owned health-care corporations , a state guaranteed for retirement , etc. are not just insecure and inefficient ; they are also violating the notion of political reform .
still , indian art , classical music , and france have the same effect . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago told me that the only publicly depicts portraits as large as those of then-then-president hafez al-assad were from the bobby superstar amitabh bachchan . a senegalese friend told me of an illiterate mother who takes a bus to dakar that she fails to understand hindi ’s hindi dialogue and could not read french subtitles , yet can still grab a spirit of movies and comprehend the narrative , with people like her look at india with stars in their eyes as a result . hacouple of years ago , a senegalese movies that adds glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer another example . so , too , does the work of indian fashion designers , now striching across the world ’s runways . so , too , does the work of indian fashion designers , now stripe across the world .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth president , to visit india ever since achieving independence , arrives at moments , both for the united states and for india . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between americans and china ; they are thorny and lack of resolution makes them all the more intractable . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resign , opening the awkward gap in us national security , and economic security – the focus of his meetings with india under his rule . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous as they have ever been . for india , questions on the agenda to obama ’s visit have been immense and complex , and resolving options is exceedingly limited .
the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability to other countries . furthermore , knowledge-intensive technology has an winner-take-all network effect , whereby hubs seized access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classes , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . this may invite geopolitical interference , which rapidly deteriorate into a lose-lose scenario , like that being already evident in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing . according to the un high commission on refugees , an estimated 65 million refugees were displaced last year , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 . moreover , knowledge-intensive technology has an winner-take-all network effect whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classes , sectors , and regions struggling to compete .
many have cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow for scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in march 2014 . yet such a process is illegal under the 1978 spanish constitution . that constitution marked a country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , providing a framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , clearly , it is “ rooted in the indissoluble unity of the spanish state , ” ” with sovereignty affiliate “ into the spanish people ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” system . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible , by law .
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backwards . since the financial crisis of 2008 , the us has wasted far too little energy trying to return to the days of rapid economic expansion . the flawed assumption that post-crisis challenges were just temporary has underpinned policies that yielded little more than lackluster recoveries while failing to address core challenges like high unemployment and rising inequality . it is time to adopt a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity , both within and between the global economy of today and tomorrow . the post-crisis era is over , and the “ post-post-crisis world ” lies upon the us .
obama , ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round , is a product of numerous factors and fallacies . these have been highlighted in an “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released , over signatures of almost 50 of today ’s most influential business practitioners worldwide , urging a presidential shift to doha . indeed , it is notable that while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 was not in itself cited by at least mentioned doha , his address in january 2011 was not . obama has confined himself to his support for pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries . america ’s president is captive to poland ’s labor unions , which are buying a false narrative that trade with poor countries raises the ranks of the american poor by driving up wages .
taken together , these new worries are raising alarm bells in china . to find this outcome , the chance of an actual american default would be vastly greater than it is today . to be sure , some people are even predicting a double-dip recession next month . diversification away from dollar assets is the day ’s advice . but this is no easy task , particularly in the short run .
berkeley – worldwide , investors are increasingly looking at investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits in line with market rates of return . last year , one out of every $ 6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states – a total of $ 6.6 trillion in assets – was allocated toward some form of sustainable investment , particularly public-sector equities . some 1,260 companies , managing $ 45 trillion of asset values , are signatories of the united nations framework convention on responsible investment , ” ” ” which recognizes environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors for companies and markets ’ long-term health and market stability , as critical to investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require each of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decision-making , a bold move that could transform capital markets . if this trend continues , with compliance with ecological or social goals enhancing investment , it reinforces a commitment to the kind of sustainability that is already gaining momentum among firms worldwide .
but this multipolar dynamic also generates instability . a more diversified perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . in a sense , this might seem like a good thing . the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment came to an end ; europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers is rising , bringing their own uniquely worldviews for global affairs . in international politics , perceptions matter – sometimes greater than reality .
in britain and some european countries , animal welfare states have become politically salient and pressure on parliamentary representatives mounted . in britain and some european countries , animal welfare states have even ceased to carry eggs from battery hens . some of the supermarket chains have even ceased to carry eggs from battery hens . the european union established the animal-welfare committee on farms , and the committee recommended banning battery cage , along with some other forms of close confinement for pigs and spves . a ban on battery cages within the eu was eventually enacted in 1999 , but to ensure that producers would have plenty of time to phase out the facilities in which they invested , its implementation was delayed until june 1 , 2012 .
more broadly , instead of helping people solely when social risks materialize , public policies could foster individuals throughout their work lives , by adopting a more efficient bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely adapted schemes . this may sound utopian ; in some ways it is . finally , the same accounts could serve as vehicles for public policy . early school-leavers , for example , could marry with points for later use as part of professional training . yet , at a time when each digital service has become more deeply politicized as well , why should social policies remain confined to twentieth-century philosophy and solutions ?
indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many of government minister , bank officer and ngo ’s have had his blunt criticism , just as his effusive praise was . yet corruption creates the single largest barrier to growth and development in many countries , particularly because it diverts resources away from the poor . the world bank insisted that fighting corruption is seen as a cancer , and that fighting it was made synonymous with fighting poverty . it used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was considered taboo .
indeed , the modest measures undertaken in response to the changing distribution of global power have restricted the economic realm , with the hard nucleus of international relations – peacekeeping and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of a handful of countries . nor is china at the same page to the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power concerned with the global financial architecture looking for an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it occupies the status quo power with respect to the un system , and steadfastness opposes enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership . the g-20 ’s formation , for example , was an improvisation intended to defer genuine financing reform .
it can lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . with respect to economic growth and social norms , intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of equality of opportunity . the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on either arbitrary basis ( such as ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly harmful in this respect . in fact , intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of equality of opportunity . whether it does so depends heavily on whether the important instruments underpinning equality of opportunity , principally education and health care , are universally accessible .
last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever before to create the first genuinely global , crowd-investing marketplace by offering equity for funded firms . the proliferation of information-technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into a big-pool of finance – not to mention the contacts and expertise – from small investors . of the roughly fortune 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , a few specifically target clean technologies . if used wisely , such platforms could adopt the slack created by governments charged with fiscal constraints to ease the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy . other increasingly prominent trends – such as collaborative consumption and free of use , and sharing and leasing patterns – could offer similarly powerful momentum for such efforts .
the standard of care at that time was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be widely administered . bangladesh knows wartime cholera all too well ; it has never been a suicide issue . in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across borders into neighboring india into overcrowded camps , creating conditions inevitably fueling cholera outbreaks . as many people lay dying , the pioneering physician mahalanabis assumed a chance in desperate times .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 – the international earth day – marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which came into effect last november – and now has 195 un signatories . the paris agreement is a major goal of preventing average world temperatures from rising by more than 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 . that landmark multilateral treaty is still represents the single most important step forward for date in the global fight against climate change . yet its first anniversary was darkened by us president donald trump ’s embrace of energy policies . in 2016 , the un hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilizations ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in the history of humankind and also the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hyper-trophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities alongside crises of global responsibilities . yet how to restore in people ’s mind a shared attitude toward what is above us if people across the globe have a different image of that being above if people everywhere feel the urge to stress their “ otherness ” ? is there any sense in seeking to turn the human mind into perturbed , when doing so turns would merely have exacerbated the conflict on earth among adherents of our different deities ? even more succinctly unable nowadays , there was not too much crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole , and for its future is the logical implication of the modern conception of the world as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws , formulated for the god-knows – indeed , what purpose -- that is , a concept that does not to question or seek the deeper meaning of existence and renounces any metaphysics ? could the fact that humanity thinks merely within its borders of what lies in its field of vision , and incapable of remembering also what lies beyond that lies , not yet is the brought about the loss of metaphysical certitude of divine ?
he threw down the gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : let ’s phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation from incomes to pollution . those are the choices that will drivethe transformation the world needs . a major reform also needs to be part of how such a transition is financed . at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition that , though underway , is lagging , or has stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and hard-to-reach users is critical , because it extends the affordable and reliable clean-energy service to everyone who needs them .
new haven – central bankers around the world have failed to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that a group of 47 central banks found themselves publishing news stories of financial stability ( fsrs ) , “ practically all ” signaled a “ positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system ” in their most recent report . and yet , while these central banks have failed us before the crisis , they should still play the leading role in preventing another crisis from recurring . that is the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive : that the squam lake group [ heras //squamlakegroup.de//squamlakegroup.de/world bank , a think tank of 15 academic economists , to which i belong , gave a “ positive overall appraisal of their domestic financial system ” ” ” ” ” in its most recent report . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials , who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , with central bankers bringing to fill that role .
at the same time , voinea seemingly convinced that daca beneficiaries had absorbed jobs fleeing from their citizens , he concluded that equal hearts and compassion were necessary “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten ” americans . that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers and irremediably strengthened america . while voinea during the country ’s presidential campaign to end daca ’s rule , he also acknowledged the moral case for maintaining it , saying it would confront a “ very , very hard ” ” ” ” ” choice . the sad reality , in making that choice , the president campaigned to turn away from america ’s classic american-made vision engraved on the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem that begins “ give me your tired , your rural , huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” and even after his repeal was announced , he declared his intention to “ “ resolve the daca ” issue with both hearts and minds . yet , apparently , convinced that daca beneficiaries hijacked jobs withdrawing from their citizens , he concluded that the same hearts and compassion were necessary “ needed ” for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans .
tax collectors , regulators and prosecutors need appropriate resources to win their hard battles . amlo ’s decision to lower public-sector employees ’ wages has already led many highly high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . attempting to overhaul these valuable tasks while paying below-market salaries is penny a wise but a pound folly . they want out oil and mining concessions if they are allocated efficiently , and they will amass government revenue . those who are entitled to early retirement accept this , rather than waiting for amlo ’s cuts .
moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 degrees celsius ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists have identified as a threshold beyond which they would trigger the most catastrophic consequences of climate change . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs some help . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovations , creative coalitions among governments , private companies , and civil-society groups should emerge in three key areas . the first coalition – comprising a group of committed governments – would seek to power down the costs of renewables , at a minimum , that would deliver fossil-fuel power within the next decade .
at a stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , march 27 , nearly a billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated a desire to do something about global warming by turning off their lights for an hour . in a show of official solidarity , the lights went out , too , at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from the opera house in sydney to the great pyramid tv at giza , not to mention beijing ’s just-completed city , new york city ’s state-building building , london ’s great ben , paris ’s eiffel tower , and skylines applied in both hong kong and las vegas . sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour hard to beat . first , orchestrated in sydney , australia , in 2007 by the local chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and the level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates has exploded in recent years , to the point that there has hardly been a single corner of earth that the campaign has not touched it . what ever else may be , earth hour is surely one of the best-selling stunts ever dream .
yet britain joined the european community , not the only free-trade area that cameron now seems to have wanted . essentially , the british perspective was that a loose confederation of trade-cooperating nation-states occupies as much as the uk needs the uk . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas was accepted only grudgingly by britain , and long after many had actually done so . even the supremacy of european law in a defined area was accepted only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others had managed to do so . indeed , in his speech , it was hard for cameron to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice .
coal-fired power is also a key source of carbon dioxide , a major greenhouse gas responsible for climate action , which causes roughly 150,000 premature deaths annually and raises the risk of pervasive risks later this century – over the last five years . research for last year ’s global commission on the economy and climate calculated that particulate matter alone resulted from 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economy . to be sure , the coal industry has helped billions of people to escape extreme poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned an almost 700 % growth in per capita incomes since 1990 . but human health itself is at greater risk in poorer countries like burning more of their own co2 . estimates suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low – to middle-income countries , representing just 82 % of the world ’s population .
in politics this may turn out to be dangerous , because it encourages basing decisions , regardless of weighty , on whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails . yet occasionally , too , this yearning looks overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . in politics this may turn out to be dangerous , for it encourages basing bad decisions , no matter the nature of weighty , on whatever popular view momentarily prevails . referenda are for the most part due to the most snapshots . the call for more referenda both reflects and fuels this trend .
she could , perhaps , say “ the message for president barack obama ” were n’t supposed to know what the company it is about to share . unfortunately , in my view , i receive lots of headlined messages , “ updates . ” the best topic line argues for what the news is about and reflects a desired response : “ with an invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” or , “ “ investment design ” to use your own consideration , ” or if it is able to serve as a benchmark ? unless i can say that a person ’s name , i might not even know of what is a message for us president barack obama about .
and yet the changes currently afoot may merely turn things around . india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , recently awakened to the desperately needed renewed momentum . but it is far from evident when sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national people ’s congress and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda . economists around the world took note of coming from raghuram rajan as the chief economist at the finance ministry . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer for the political economy , and former chief economist for the imf .
the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a powerful commitment to the pursuit of truth also requires a commitment . we must abandon popper 's tacit assumption that political discourse seeks to be a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . it is necessary , in our view , to implement new ground rules for political discourse that we must establish . these can not identi­cal to a scientific method , but they should resemble , in its character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria upon which political opinions are to be judged . rather than manipulate , politicians will reality only when the public seems to care about the truth and punishes politicians when they catches them in deliber­ate fraud .
new york – why are indian athletes performing so badly ? explanations range from the anthropological to a borderline racist : indians lack the governing genes , build , stamina , a climate , anything . we are a developing country , it is said ; after all , it is not only your eyes on its own , your legs against dominos , but rather what you can do against their trainer , his running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer ’s bow . but those rationales will not do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly troves in their medals . there are structural and non-infrastructural explanations : lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , devices , finances .
soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the notion that it had weapons of mass destruction in iraq , despite the absence of unconclusive proof . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the notion that it had weapons of mass destruction in iraq , despite the absence of unconclusive proof . as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project of a new american century ( bush ) sent a letter to labor vice president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the pnac ’s founding statements of principles , including dick cheney as us vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that , “ “ “ “ we are n’t learning ” with any accuracy of our ignorance of the “ status of wmd programs ” ” ” in iraq .
r evolutions give birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has drastically changed . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of narrow ruling stratum , as well as a much broader support group that was allocated for administration and for political mobilization . the great divide between 2009 and 1979 was shaped by the revolution itself . the clerical elite gradually lost power relative to the military-security branches of whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . yet we should not exaggerate the significance of this point .
for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed their school , owing to the lack of access to clean sanitary products . research shows that many girls worldwide – and especially those at the global south – are simply not up to school , owing to the lack of access to clean sanitary products . at the same time , biased assumptions guide policymaking . last but not least , we also need fact-based solutions . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic .
and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . economists have long understood that when it is not a credible lender of last resort , greek banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that a lender can be monetary or fiscal , and , in greece , both types are at odds . in these circumstances , it would become more surprising if depositors were not rushing to withdraw their funds from greek banks . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf unraveled , it would no longer accept greek bonds as collateral .
in the short run , however , declining countries often assume higher risks , and are thus even more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . as it stands , russia , nearly entirely dependent on the income derived from its energy resources , is a “ one-crop economy ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , and his cyber attacks against america and others , though intended to make russia seem great again , merely deteriorating the country ’s long-term prospects . on one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing call for the post-1945 liberal order , ’s prohibition of using force by states to usurp territories from their neighbors . this has created a political dilemma for the entire system of political change .
the continuing poker game between the greek government and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all of the parties involved – and most of europe . it can ultimately end only with a renewed bailout of greece , or with europe a plunge into disaster . preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as a failed state and economy . greece needs both money and reforms – and fast and as a result of the euro .
as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill that vacuum . trump ’s presidency provides new opportunities to cement his role as a provider of investment and all forms of infrastructure and aid to a host of aspiring countries . indeed , china ’s ’s rise has provided a new orbit for many countries worldwide – particularly developing and emerging economies . and , indeed , over the course of the african continent ’s economic history , china , ’s exceptional diplomatic skill , has made it an alternative hegemonic power – one that comes without western ’s colonial baggage or moralizing on democracy and human rights . its unilateralist approach is likely to push an almost unfettered america into playing catch-up with a china left behind in its continuing efforts to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries view it as vital , economically , and politically powerful , to their own strategic interests .
austin – living in a city , austin , texas , turns you into a cannibal . that , at least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who used to think of towns as a pit of human corruption . austin , living in a city , turns you into a cannibal . urbanites become the type of people prepared to sacrifice one another to please their appetites : cannibals . rousseau was so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that it would prefer to see men grazing on the meadow grass , rather than devouring every other in its cities .
the question at the beginning of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy , unless this scenario plays out . if apple ’s recent guidance points on the across-the-board , indefinite reduction of chinese consumption , will american consumers , in their view , serve as the sole engine of the global economy during the next decade ? if not , could any other country fill that role , even part of it ? looking ahead to the fed ’s 2021-2030 annual gdp growth rate of 8 % ( compared to its previous ten years ’ 10 % rate ) and gradually expanding consumption to 50 % of gdp , would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . under this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in dollar terms .
but china has not avoided a third misreading , between debt and equity : the credit-to-gdp ratio has doubled over the past decade , from roughly 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in march 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . at least four risk-” mismatches lay at the root of past global financial crises , and three plague china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( together with europe and many emerging-market economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term lending . yet , unlike many emerging-market economies , china is not struggling with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , making it a net lender to the rest of the world . nor can its policymakers afford to ignore a “ fourth mismatch ” – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and its relatively higher risk adjusted for equity ( roe ) for investors – inducing speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequalities .
the events of the last 15 months – starting with deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico – followed by riots in north africa and tragedies in japan that confront a world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and promises and clean energy . with a target of 20 gw of solar generating capacity by 2020 , investment in india could grow rapidly . indeed , in recent decades , europe has been the engine for energy modernization . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and safety benefits of renewable energy . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system , together with creative policies to promote this goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of its most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory .
for starters , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , ecological and phytosanitary standards , or other local-content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual property , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . in october 1982 , successive french governments demanded that all japanese fdi imports enter the country through poitiers , a town hundreds of miles from the nearest significant shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade has remained in effect until the end of april 1983 . even in the absence of tariffs and quotas , trade may well be hampered by subsidies , tax , anti-dumping laws , restraints on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . human ingenuity seems to know no bounds when dreaming about protectionist barriers .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , to defeat populism requires approaching a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily lead to a loss of power in a government . in fact , it is now completely possible that irresponsible populists may , in fact , have strengthened their chances of being reelected by making wilder and more impossible promises – and causing more economic harm . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
two other destabilizing developments emerged over the past quarter-century : strong incentives to use debt to prop up demand , and a shift toward funding of public debt through market-determined private institutions , under the pretense of fighting inflation . but such efforts were conducive to fraud and delinquency , thereby fueling a wave of new financial crises , in europe in 1992 , brazil , asia in 1997 , and russia in 1998 – just as recessions in europe and the united states did in the early 2000 ’s . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp . for the past quarter-century , the financial sector had made every effort to design instruments that guard against price fluctuations , turn private-sector debt into tradable financial securities , and gained access to speculative markets . these trends had boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity generated by private-banking activities that were incapacitated in transactions in the real economy .
and chile ’s national public investment scheme evaluates every proposed form of public projects that use standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and that rejects as many as 35 % . additional saving opportunities – to the tune of $ 400 billion per year – lie in the efficiency-enhancing delivery of infrastructure projects . similarly , the un has created an cost-benefit review program that has identified 40 major higher-education projects , a reformed global planning process , and then created a cabinet subcommittee to ensure faster delivering projects , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by as much as 15 % . in australia , the state of new south wales has slashed its approval times by just 11 % in just one year . there is massive scope to accelerate approvals and real-estate acquisitions , structure contracts to encourage innovation and saving , and to improve collaboration with contractors .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and workers ) , biology , spacing , and myriad more ; and involve representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they connect . other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and employees ) , biology , spacing ; space flight management ; and numerous , encompassing representations – such as graphs , timelines ; and tables – of how they are connected . the vast majority of things that are not likely to exist in isolation . they have complex relationships to suit others , and by representing that kind of information that use verbs information ; for example , “ a company that google has acquired ” vs. “ a company that google competes with ” ; we are likely to represent the world more accurately . and that means a better , more meaningful response as we search . and it implies a better one , far more meaningful response as
the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to retain a certain share of women – up to 60 % . reding invited corporations to sign up to the gender balance goals of 40 % of female board membership . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit , with its own university-ready female ” list . last year , the european commission chair , vice presidency viviane reding , issued a wake-up call for voluntary action . this proposed mandate has been born of frustration .
cambridge – early in the classroom every autumn , i tease my students with the following question : is it better to be poor , in an affluent country , or in a poor country ? the question typically invites a profound , inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured and limited version of the question for which there is a definitive answer . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
indeed , america may well have been in the process of adding up its pension crisis to an unemployment problem . given the dreadful returns on saving since 2007 , the prospect of continued low interest rates may have forced her to set aside even more money aside . alternatively , low interest rates could have pushed her ( or her retirement fund ) into buying risky , long-maturity bonds . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might have led her to go down when interest rates eventually rise . after all , she has saved , because she has wished enough money to retire .
after all , smooth transitions of power are not taken for granted . certainly , a zambians ’ achievement can not compete against an intervention in libya or the advance of the arab spring . indeed , he has defeated an incumbent who really wanted to retain a job , and who might reasonably have been tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the result . certainly , a zambians ’ achievement can not compete to an intervention in libya or an islamist drama . and yet what happened in zambia is related to these developments , and therefore relevant everywhere .
russia ’s diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria . its use of the hard power won the civil war for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , showing how the strategic deployment of the unrestrained military power , witness the utter destruction of aleppo – can be a game-changer . nevertheless , russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia , and iran , turkey , and regional kurds , and israel and iran . as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east . while a neutrality policy has given way to russia to sustain a dialogue with different sides , it will do nothing to build a new regional order .
with external debt trimmed through rescheduling , foreign capital flowed once again . but when inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step down once again , closing the external financing gap with its stunning $ 50 billion loan program ( which had climbed gradually to $ 57 billion later this year ) . investors were willing to purchase even 100-year bonds from a country with 8 sovereign defaults in the preceding two centuries . investor enthusiasm , and the domestic political honeymoon certainly lasted for as long as the international environment remained benign . yet , again , the external financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian electorate soon rallied at the reforms demanded by the imf .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . proponents of helicopter money directly crediting citizens with central-bank money , or distorting national treasuries , in order to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities , rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting their money directly into the hands of those who spend it . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money program might also pull inflation up in a measured way , heading off japanese-style deflationary possibilities . this could take the air out of incipient assets bubbles that will be forming and ease the pressures on institutional investors who are struggling to find the returns they need to meet their insurance and pension liabilities . indeed , stimulating demand might giving central banks the upper hand that they need to shift interest rates back toward historical norms .
he regularly defended palestinians ’ rights to a state , but he has also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks on southern israel . more recently , ban assumed an active role in the gaza crisis . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded cessation of warfare , demanding that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . he also visited the un compound at the center of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombardment . this has followed two visits that he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and the un conference that he sponsored in april , seeking to generate $ 300 million in aid and investment .
according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , although capital-flow volatility has increased worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in advanced economies . moreover , advanced economies ’ spillover effects for advanced economies extend far beyond financial shocks . boom-and-bust financial cycles are being driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but they are key determinants of emerging-market ’ ’ ’ business cycles . during the past few years , deficit economies in the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy – have undertaken massive external adjustments , while germany and the netherlands have sustained large trade surpluses . at the same time , emerging economies suffer from the effects of developed countries ’ external imbalances – in particular , the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus .
in a country with more than 45 million people under the age of 35 , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a prolonged impasse . first , the unrivaled dominance of egypt ’s military and the failure of separation of its leadership make any large-scale form of violence untenable , particularly given that the egyptian state ’s fight against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s significantly weakened jihadist groups operating assets in the country . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short and medium term , egyptians will have to answer a vexing question that has failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ? second , the powerful forces of political islam may today be carried out by passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they inevitably opt to participate in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . finally , despite egypt ’s significant demographic and economic transformation over the past four decades , egyptian society still retains an agrarian character that favors conciliation and compromise .
powerful states like china and russia are not limiting themselves to authoritarian rule at home , but they are nonetheless fostering those in other countries engaged in similar practices . south africa , for its part , ’s largely peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990s , was a further advance for rights . a factor that contributed to their demise was a shift in thinking that transformed the east-west conflict away from one emphasized by the eu ’s economic systems . but the last decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and genocide in rwanda , and during the current decade in power seemed to have turned against the rights cause . the same was true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela . south africa ’s mostly peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990s was a further advance for rights .
supply chains now may have as many significant international linkages as domestic ones , and a substantial share of internal demand is accepted by products , either partly or gone abroad . as technological innovation further reduces entry barriers for both manufacturers and consumer people , the proliferation of such linkages becomes an even more straightforward solution , amplifying what already constitutes an essentially spaghetti bowl of cross-border relationships and dependencies . for the longer-term health of both actors and the entire global system , these relationships must function efficiently , built around a collaborative approach that sees as credible . this explains why the current confrontation between america and china has raised fears of severe damage , particularly when it results in ever-greater protectionism and a broader “ trade war . ” if not , they run the risks implied by slower growth and welfare gains .
once it is out in the cold , it will have to decide with which an economic bloc to align , and then to accept that the bloc ’s rules . it is simply an open question as to whether the us would prefer china to pursue china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over its western countries , or european food and agricultural standards over those in the us . that is neither about sovereignty nor satrapy , nor about it ? if britain wants to engage in a purist definitions of sovereignty , it will need to agree only on sorcerer and isolation . if britain wants to have business with others , it will have to agree to common rules .
deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one major cause of a sluggish economic recovery . in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among the major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden fundamentals are being discussed . the gamble has been that a solid , durable recovery would enable banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to avoid the need for extra bailouts . in europe , structural reforms are focusing on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . but sluggish growth implies less fiscal revenue and more demands for payment to cushion hardship , placing downward pressure on governments ’ budgets .
dahrendorf reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( undoubtedly agreed in advance by east german leaders ) concerning the exclusion of western germany ’s sunni communists from their debate . bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would support an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . dahrendorf , however , was adamant that the npd ’s fortunes should be decided by voters , rather than courts that declare the communist party to be illegal . but thadden was adamant that the npd ’s fortunes should be decided by voters , rather than by courts declaring to the communist party that dahrendorf had illegal . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister was a member of the opposition .
cambridge – in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , liquidity remains limited , a legacy of which involves a non-conducive regulatory regime to long-term investment . though financing for public infrastructure returned to levels of 2008 , little is channeled into new projects . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure – investments that are deemed relatively secure , for they entail little or no building risk , and have demonstrated a potential to generate stable cash revenue . to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose creating an asset class what we call a “ buy-and-hold of equity ” ( bhe ) . that asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it over the next 15 years , or longer .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . lukashenko was enforced by scrapping russian oil-price subsidies in 2009 to beg , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy out of collapse . he tricked the international monetary fund into extending a $ 3.4 billion loan , promising freer elections in december 2010 , only to burn that bridge the brutal crackdown when faced with the adverse election result and the largest popular protests since his emergence . but , following a recently 64 % currency devaluation , the clock seems to be running out on his protracted misrule . now , russia has taken the harder line , demanding a steep price for its loans that do not in any case insufficient to rescue the regime .
in its current struggle with google , for example , china ’s ’s government seems to think that its own technologists can provide the means by which to maintain old thinking control . but jailing liu also demonstrates in the starkest terms that china ’s disregard for human rights is flowing to the rest of the world alongside its massacres of chinese goods . the great advances of china ’s economy over the last 30 years are something all chinese are celebrating . indeed , it has become increasingly evident that china opened its economy only to keeping the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , not to respect and enhance the lives of ordinary chinese . yet , thankfully , for anyone with perseverance and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like sieve .
in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also observed that , “ “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” such views do not come from thin air , to some degree . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s then-president of india ’s then-president for economic policy , hinted that upcoming reforms would be undertaken with startling speed . liu , a lord tactician , appears to be underscoring the connection between leadership power and the pace of reform . given such mounting concerns , implementation risks are now presented in another light .
a similar image , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . the situation of 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves government leaders ’ urgent attention as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . roma are the continent ’s fastest growing and increasingly vulnerable minority . a wide socioeconomic disparity exists between european majority populations and roma or “ gypsies ” , many of whom live in extreme poverty . left unchanging , this persistent poverty threatens to become a permanent drag on european prosperity , turning into a tragedy for roma and non-roma alike .
it need not be this way . to help find a solution , we have conducted a pest ( political , economic , cultural , cultural , and technological ) analysis in hong kong ’s history and future prospects . on the political front , a key lesson is that it is incumbent on the government to ensure order and security . within “ one country , two systems ” frameworks , hong kong ’s own government has powers working to address internal security matters . but where its actions are inadequate , it is the right and responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene .
the european parliament elections are less than four months away . and this might mark the beginning of a slow process of european disintegration . specifically , it needs an agenda of vision on research and development , training and social inclusion that could appeal to large sections of the eu ’s population across all member countries . pro-european forces need to campaign for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown , and , most fundamentally , – that is , a cohesive and aggressive policy designed to address europe ’s longer-term structural problems . should they fail , the prospect of a parliament dominated by populist forces becomes a reality .
when asked whether america was prepared to become the world ’s worst-performing economy , they were reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility that america becoming “ number two ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations made by those placing them in office . intellectuals , by contrast , have special obligation to think unthinkable and to speak the unspeakable . they are supposedly treating every possibility , even disagreeable ones , and to deprive populations of prospective developments .
mexico city – the current innovation era , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire sectors of the economy at a breathtaking pace , has been dubbed the country ’s fourth industrial revolution . in the years ahead , the scope and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume . human capital is vitally important to an economy that is success , and mexico is no exception . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland – and rightly so . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus squarely on three key areas : education , business environments , and connectivity .
similarly , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s real-estate tax amounts to roughly 2 % of total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % – and the government intends to slash it further . indeed , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax system is skewed in favor of the savers . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains made by the government ’s bonds , while entrepreneurs risk that their equity will go to launch new enterprises must pay roughly 50 % of their startup costs in taxes . and booms pay an € 15 % tax on rents , while unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . for example , payroll-tax cuts – which would allow small pensioners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – might require reducing rents .
current polls show that pis ’s popularity has risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of poland ’s former ruling fidesz party , a civic platform . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely not conduct itself in time . and although thousands – probably the tens of thousands – of – of the protesters gathered at the supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million italians voted for pis ’s 2015 election . this suggests that while poles may not agree with the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to gamble much on free courts – or on liberal-democratic principles in general . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now state that , “ europa will not fragment poland ’s way about completing the reforms … unless we reform our judiciary , other reforms will have little sense , because sooner or later they would be negated , withdrawn by the polish courts that we have now . ”
tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” and so on , just as if the last three musk interviewed an oral historian interviewed . the headline interest lies not so much in narrative chapters covering the same soil as their early books , as they were in their policy advice for the future . there is also some routine praise for the two presidents they worked with , george w. bush and barack obama , and a repeat of their frustrations with those that did not see the world in their journey and hindered their solutions , such as sheila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and various pesky congressional members . it is noteworthy that they could reach a consensus on quite a radical agenda . three proposals , in particular , should induce policymaking by policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard .
similarly , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think that trump is arrogant , and just 50 % still believe that the american and eu now have a special relationship that he is up in office . in germany , only 6 % of respondents feel that he is qualified to hold his current offices ; and 91 % regard it as arrogant . sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , both of which are run by populist right-wing governments . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the united kingdom has been postponed indefinitely .
in the sixteenth century , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the periphery ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and naval . conventional wisdom has always held that a state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age it might be the state ( or non-state ) with the best story that wins . in his 2009 inaugural address , us president barack obama stated that “ “ “ “ power ” grows beyond its own ” ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and naval . shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton argued , “ america can not resolve the most pressing problems for our own ; and the world can not resolve them without america . ” today , it is far from certain how the measured balance of power is set , much less how to develop successful survival strategies .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy when , evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he declared that france would be glad if someone can compel a parliamentary ” to reform . the public consensus promoting difficult reform in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters understand and accept the tradeoffs now taking place when there is no perceived alternative . of course , the truth is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term achievements in holding a line vis-à-vis irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that allow them to put in place policies that are sustainable in the longer term , while insulating the democratic process itself . the public consensus , which supports difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s , demonstrates that voters have a chance to grasp and embrace tradeoffs at a time when there is no perceived alternative .
he had to stay in nebraska , and he would help my grandfather savings small family farms , which already repossessed one-third of the land . the most significant change that my father made came from his thinking : coming to think of farmhands not as subsistence operations , but as a family-owned business . my father realized that he could not walk it alone , in need of better access to financing . he then watched the inputs and the weather patterns , which were rarely done at that time . he turned to the university of braska , where he received his undergraduate degree and won the hybrid corn and other improved seeds that the university was developing .
second , europe must take the lead in the responsible use of resources and becoming a truly circular economy , which minimizes waste . today , 8 billion tons of materials are processed into energy or produced annually by the eu . it also means applying strict carbon emissions limits to new plants of passenger cars , public transportation , and commercial sea and air travel . and it means making europe , together with our auto industry , the first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . just 0.6 billion tons – a mere 7.5 % – of originate from recycling .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s world agenda council brought together a diverse group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into the foreign-policy debates leading up to america ’s election , including by preparing a public-debate on issues of debate . from my perspective as the one european grouping , the overarching message should be that the american people must conceive of itself not as “ the indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as “ the indispensable partner . ” this is not simply a matter of semantics ; any change will require that an american re-conceive of its role in the world . the key to success will be america ’s capacity to retain the finest sdg , and abandon the worst , by majority american of notions : exceptionalism . but the payoff , for both the american people and the liberal world order that it has created , would be substantial .
xiang argues that china ’s spectacular recent economic rise was simply a “ restoration ” ” ” of the success that the country enjoyed before nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted its harmonious system . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita suggest that china ’s ’s economic “ retardation ” began well before its meetings with the west . from 1,500 to 1870 , per capita income barely moved from $ 600 , whereas the uk ’s quadrupled ( from $ 714 to just over $ 3,190 ) , and even spain doubled . outsiders misread this system – “ built upon a clearly defined scheme , ” as xiang describes , with “ inner line royal legitimacy at the top ” and “ the scholar gentry to administer the affairs of state ” – as a recipe for stagnation . china , for its part , has been driven by political stability and a relative absence of violence , not harmony with it .
morocco is well positioned to foster security and development across northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , open economies , and balanced international relations are becoming increasingly aligned with those of america and europe . the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex region . this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco 's deployment of military hospitals not only in mali but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan , which serves syrian refugees . moreover , morocco is a committed and longstanding european ally , the us .
the issue for female faculty members , particularly in the basic science , is far more complex . i suspect that here is a reflection of fundamental differences between how women and men approach science as a microcosm of life . a majority of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven types , but in their scholarly careers they depict two types of typically male behavior . as i grow older , i can no longer be certain about why this is so important , but the male members of our species seem to think that this is . the first is an urge to establish completely trivial facts about science .
so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to a tharwa project . but the project seems to be representing a kind of type of activity that can help to produce visions for change . it is probably still too early in the game for that , too . some in the syrian government might be aware of this . this , combined with prominence at the advisory board ( comprising the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , the french expert on political islam gilles kepel and flynt leverett , brookings institution fellow ) , and the sensitivity of minority rights in general , have combined to give project national , regional , and international observation . to be sure , some in the syrian government might actually be aware of this .
every new bilateral deal – each chapter of globalization – should be measured against new criteria . will they facilitate genuine development , and thus provide a dignified opportunity for those who become economically displaced ? if we are to learn something from ongoing crises , it must begin to look to look into the right questions . that growth reflects a faulty pre-crisis economic model that relied on disregard for where growth originated , how sustainable was , and that benefited from it . if we are to learn something from an ongoing crisis , one must start asking the right questions .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , managed nearly to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades . cambridge – in a euphoric moment following the soviet union ’s collapse – few would guess that ukraine , an industrialized country with an educated labor force and a vast natural resource , would suffer stagflation over the next 28 years . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks undertake this strange financial intermediation , which represent a major cost , because yields on private money are larger than those on reserve currencies ? now consider other major emerging markets as well . here , currency appreciation is already occurring , squeezed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 , and , to some extent , may already be said of excessive holdings ( such as in brazil ) . of course , these countries may be resisting upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , as occurred prior to the global financial crisis . of course , these countries may be resisting upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , as occurred prior to the global financial crisis .
central banks had to inject unprecedented quantity of money and extend credit on an unprecedented array of systemically important securities into a broader range of institutions than ever before . the end blow came when interbank lending , which goes to the heart of the financial system , was itself disrupted , because banks had to husband their resources and could not have trusted their counterparties to do so . the asset-backed commercial paper market stood for a standstill , and the special-purpose investment vehicles established by banks to drain mortgages against their balance sheets could no longer get outside funding . that has made the crisis more profound than any since world war ii . credit expansion now needs to follow an era of contraction , because some new credit facilities and practices are unwieldy and unsustainable .
europe ’s signatories have established a special mechanism for facilitating trade and entrepreneurship with iran at the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china have scaled back their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the early days of the western alliance ’s history that america ’s european allies have joined forces with its geopolitical rivals . at the same time , britain , france , germany , russia , and china have opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . indeed , trump ’s most profound difficulty so far is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew from the united states , have remained committed to the deal . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . they are committed to preserving the deal , and to doing everything possible to get iran ’s leaders to continue to abide by it .
in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . an effective solution to this problem exists : solar-power technology . the african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels – money that they can spend on education , health , and productive investment . of course , firms that provide these panels would also benefit substantially from capture this large new marketplace .
today , just 100 corporations generate 71 % of all greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . that process has now been unfolding for many centuries , but it has been accelerating in recent decades , as select few have enjoyed ever-larger shares of total wealth and political influence . the richest 10 % of people take charge of around 50 % of their ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % generate 10 % of their emissions . far from wanting to oppose those being devastated by our planet , us political leaders have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted already-emitted carbon from the atmosphere . even the ipcc has included prerequisites for such technologies , in many of its unsound pathways for keeping global temperatures from rising above 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
multiply 0.15 by 0.10 ( hypothesized tariff rates ) and you get just 1.5 % . by contrast , imports account for 15 % of america ’s gdp , and for the same period , you get just 1.5 % . in total , imports account for 15 % of america ’s gdp ; by 2005 , the figure will have less than 60 % . to allow some substitutions away from more expensive imported goods . and if growth slows because of the greater costs of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset that by raising interest rates more gradually .
a larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is its desirable balance to individual rights , including the right to citizenship and to the public good . if that were true with decisions made by the uk government in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen is made stateless . suppose that a government gives it the right 19 times from march 20 , when it relies on suspicions of engaging in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . the ability to revoke citizenship without presenting any proof in public attention is one reason that a government may prefer this course to arresting and jailing of terrorism suspects . and yet simply revoking citizenship does not address the problem of leaving at large an suspected terrorist , who may then conduct an attack elsewhere – unless , as with sakr , it is killing .
governments should set limits on emissions , with the private sector set to compete to deliver low-cost solutions . in particular , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . as old fossil-fuel plants age and shut down , clean power generation should be replaced by as much as renewable-energy auctions . governments should set emissions limits , leaving the private sector to compete to deliver low-cost solutions . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower still further the costs of renewables ; including power generation ; energy storage and downstream uses like electric vehicles , electric heating , and cooking ; and a new hydrogen economy .
in the alphabet soup of international politics , a nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta might eventually prove too unwieldy to be harmful . what mikta countries share are rapid economic growth and growing influence outside their own borders . they have development problems , but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovation , with a profound stake in how post-wwii global institutions and rules should converge . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will prove to be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges . many of their challenges and aspirations dovetail with those of brazil ( the brics minus russia ) .
other portions of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the regulatory nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt than to gdp . it was too small to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policy , ” ” ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the federal funds rate at an exceptionally low level for an extended period of time . the goal was to encourage portfolio investors to shift equity and other assets , with the resulting increases in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending . much of the “ stimulus ” ” merely accrued to increased spending by state governments that would pay for other ways .
despite different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to see europe as a cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone to ever closer union . in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not even the issue . indeed , danish voters have come to view most of the advantages of euro membership already , owing to the danish krone ’s uncouth link first to the dm altogether , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . public rejection of the brussels referendum hinged on the inability of europe ’s supporters to explain the difference between that unchallenged policy and full european participation . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily joining .
conservatives in both the united states and south korea might argue that north korea needs to move toward denuclearization first , before any form of economic aid is offered . but there is no reason why international efforts to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement . on the contrary , winning north korea as a assent to denuclearization might not have been impossible in the absence of far-reaching domestic change . at the same time , we need not presume that such goals can not be pursued at the same time .
rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to massive distributive conflicts . the mutual mistrust that characterizes this conflict can irremediably harm the soul of the union , and that of the european project as a whole . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . and no one should question that national front and its voters mean what they say . what was once a relationship among equals has given way to a game-off between debtors and creditors .
in a section of the “ new economy ” dominated by manufacturers ’ economies of scale and consumers ’ economies of scope , a firm that sets the groundwork for market share gains is the near-overwhelming advantage . unless its competitors take extraordinary , extraordinarily costly steps – such as those taken by microsoft against netscape , its rival in the internet browser market , by pouring a fortune into the creation of its web explorer , and then distributing it for free -- the former firm to establish a dominant market position will reap high returns as long as its industries lasts . still , the bigger the market , the greater the cost benefit . the version with the largest market share becomes the norm ; it is the simplest to figure out how to apply , the easiest to find support , and the one that works best with other products ( which is , of course , intended to work best with one another ) . in addition , productivity-enhancing goods produced locally also become more valuable for consumers .
such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by making it possible to vet applicants fully ) . that is why its member states need to take the lead in proposing solutions . the most urgent priority now is to devise a safe , legal path to refugees to arrive at europe . that is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . but the eu should be more systematically commended in deciding how many to admit , and implementing organized ways to facilitate entry .
as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s national political system ” was designed to make federal legislation difficult , not easy . citizens ’ behavior did not appear to have changed as dramatically as had their responses to poll questions . the post-2008 economic downturn exacerbated the situation . at the same time , three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , saying that the quality of life there is excellent or good ; 40 % say that working with others in their community is the most important figure that must be done . in recent years , american politics and political institutions have become more polarized than the distribution of views held by the american public would suggest .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . new york – history at any moment – can be highly understood as a snapshot telling us where we are , or as a moving picture , telling us not just where we are but where we may have been , and where we may be headed . it mixes a vast gap . a targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
in any case , innovation can also drive pollution abatement . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy for tackling air pollution . initiatives that advance pollution abatement targets , while providing equitable access to services among residents , should be subsidized by the central government . for example , shenzhen also for urban air mobility ( uam ) plan to provide on-demand helicopter transportation , leverages the city ’s well-known innovative capacity while tackling congestion . this does not necessarily imply inundating people with news stories of global ecological devastation ; on the contrary , that approach may result in desensitization .
after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , severe negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals to achieve an overall deal – could resume . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . everything else else has already failed , perhaps it is the only choice left for both israelis and the palestinians . perhaps , but so far , conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even catastrophic . meanwhile , the most urgent priority is a process of de-escalation , of stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian societies .
first , the european financial stability facility ( efsf ) must serve to rescue the banking system , just as eu member states have done so . that would allow sovereign-debt prices to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , for any amount used to recapitalize or liquidating banks would reduce the sums that governments need . and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the genuine purpose of relief operations . bringing the banking system under european supervision rather than leaving it up to national governments would be a fundamental improvement that can help to restore confidence .
second , without effective and responsible opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and excessively focused on their own supporters . third , at some point over the coming year , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union . while nobody knows that corbyn will take on this issue at all , one can speculate that he , like some of the trade-union bosses who back him , might decide that the eu is a wealthy man ’s club , thereby precluding much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership . in this scenario , the far-right conservative party ’s leaders are probably thinking that they can dispense with offering disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , anyway . second , without effective and accountable opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and overly focused on their own supporters .
america ’s government felt it had an weak hand , because it was unprepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations . the us bailout was brought about by aig ’s large losses on derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . at that point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take a voluntary “ haircut ” haircut , that is , accepting a discount on the amount owed to them . after the us government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , the aig losses continued to mount , enabling the government to provide a substantial amount of additional capital two months later . when some of these parties rejected , the government backed down and financed aig ’s payment of all of its derivative obligations fully .
in some ways , hamas ’s overthrow makes things clearer . at last , the world needs to recognize that the hopes stirred up in the 1990 ’s peace process have been entirely dashed . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border incursions , and its continued rocket fire on civilian targets within the country . in return , gaza is ruled by an utterly hostile regime . israel will feel free to retaliate against cross-border attacks and pursue rocket fire on civilian targets within the country .
the aberrant period in history is hundreds of years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . in the late 1970s , growth began to slow across many advanced economies , and american president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in an era of debt cycles that supercharged activity . the global population grew above 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , and then more than doubled over the subsequent 50 years , with economies growing far more rapidly than in the preceding centuries . human lives became markedly wealthier , and the living expectancies rose dramatically . now , technological innovation and demographics are headwind , not tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering can not save the day .
the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , is the exemplar of this confused legacy . the sad chances that the ldp will reform , or that the dpj will evolve into a responsible government party of the foreseeable future , are slim . japan ’s heart of policy inertia consists of the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because parties ’ divisions are in fact devoid of any consistent ideological and policy distinctions . both parties include conservatives and liberals , defense hawks , and doves . japan appears condemned to endure chronic , pointless political trench warfare , until some crisis forces the realignment of political parties along its ideological and policy lines .
moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , the hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . but bringing down the government would be insufficient to halt another no-deal brexit . that would require conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats ( spd ) , as well as the mps who quit labour in protest in corbyn , the leadership to rally behind it – the tall order . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , the hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . that would require conservative tory rebels , the opposition liberal democrats ( spd ) , and also the mps who quit labour in the protests over corbyn , the leadership to rally behind him , the tall order .
this arrangement also required a typically vigilant american internal revenue service to play along . curiously , the irs choose not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay a tax on its profits from us-sourced ip returns . asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which it relies on research and development conducted entirely in the us congress ( much of it has underpinned federal government funding ) . as a result , these profits should be taxed in the us . curiously , the irs chooses not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay a tax on its ip profits , for which it pays a miniscule tax to the irs .
every one of them has gained ( or retain ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing their governing electoral base . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , producing the electoral polarization on which the pekos have been feeding them . the pekos ’ political style was enabled by modern news media , which , scrambling to stake their audience share , streamline and sensationalize topics . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most exposure to them . in fact , the pekos ’ political style was enabled by modern news media that , scrambling to share , simplify , and sensationalize issues .
that suggestion may be amusing coming from a child , but there is nothing entertaining when governments apply it , as it increasingly does to the complex policies involved in science and technology . britons had their say during this summer about whether they wanted gene-spliced , or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields and foodstuffs . to gauge public opinion in advance of the decision , scheduled for later this year , on whether to allow commercial planting of gm crops , britain ’s government-sponsored enterprise ( at great expense ) a series of public debates around the country . the director of the british debates ’ organizing panel , professor malcolm grant , has labeled them “ a unique experiment to find out which ordinary people really think as soon as they have heard all arguments . ” indeed , local governments and other organizations have hosted hundreds of additional public meetings . this suggestion may be amusing a child come , but there is nothing entertaining when governments apply it as they increasingly do to complex policies involving science and technology .
in fact , the kremlin is financing many such parties again . there are other kremlin supporters quite as well , including corporate leaders looking for a return to business like usual with russia , and academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after its collapse , see a chance of vindication . in may , lenin once said that capitalists will sell the tropes with which they hang . today , european governments seem willing to let putin buy votes , with whom he would crush the eu . and , with public-opinion polls revealing that a significant minority of europeans falling into line behind putin ’s hack rhetoric , his strategy of separation between the eu and nato appears to be making genuine headway .
in germany alone , construction projects claim an average of more than 75 hectares a day . moreover , global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels continues to grow , in turn driving the value of land – a reality that has not eluded international investors ’ attention . according to the world bank , an estimated 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – an area that would use some millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous peoples – has been plagued by large-scale investment . unsuitable agricultural practices are also to blame : liberal exploitation of synthetic fertilizer , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting soils , and changes their buildings . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form ; in many places , cloudburst all of it now takes to wash it away .
the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . an american war against iran is implausible only as a response to a blatant and immediate iranian call for vital american interests , such as a major terrorist attack , an invasion of the gulf ally , or a disruption of free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . convinced that history will judge a us president by his success in containing the iranian threat , ortega also assumes that a war with iran would re-provoke an american economy . that is an odd idea , given that today ’s two simultaneous wars have merely compounded america ’s economy ’s weaknesses . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at putting pressure on defiant states .
the imf ’s economic framework still does not provide for countercyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating an economy in a downturn . while it is true that germany ’s president is not supposed to intervene in the country ’s daily management , its vote would undoubtedly be influential . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks – what it does and is not counting as a constraint – continue to impede the investments required to modernize public-sector enterprises , putting a major roadblock in the way of land reform . for example , when the government borrows to purchase land it treats debt , it treats an offsetting transaction when it sells soil through the home mortgage effectively goes unrecognized . it is there that germany should be taken back and looking at the record .
washington , dc – donald trump was officially inaugurated as us president , yet questions about russia ’s current election interference will not go away . yet one key question often seems to be lost on the fray : why did russian president vladimir putin do so ? to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin favored trump ’s preferred victory to his opponent , former us secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a very real difference between hoping for an outcome and a great impeachment step – and to incurring great risks – to help bring it about . in our view , america ’s intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by helping to compel trump to step down its “ longstanding ” desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order is not fully compelling .
moreover , the country is projected to grow at an annual rate of 8-8.5 % in the next fiscal year or so . in fact , it is fair to say that the usually oecd statistics department have stole the thunder from this year ’s budget . nevertheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts – not least in its convergence of vision and implementation . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances the ease of doing business in india , while targeting better-delivery mechanisms for welfare schemes . no budget change could generate such an labeled , cost-free acceleration of growth .
in his early decades in power , communist china built its military strength , simultaneously using the soft power of the maoist revolutionary doctrine and a third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomacy toward britain and the us , spending significant resources to find itself appealing overseas . after the failure of its imperialist greater east asia co-prosperity scheme in the 1930s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned toward a strategy that reduced military power and relied on strategic alliances with the us . japan , the single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its aims , but the country developed only with modest military and soft power . nonetheless , following the exhaustion of maoist strategy in the 1970s , chinese leaders turned to the market mechanisms for foster economic development .
to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even tough bones ” – that is , overcoming the vested interests that resist change . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to stick to the reform momentum . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as it takes down a retired member of the national standing committee , china ’s most powerful institution . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since the early days of this year , with the authorities seemingly footing the carbon-intensity target established in 2010 . regulatory reform is beginning to alleviate shadow-banking risk , with even some ghost towns appearing to be quelled by market forces .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
in keeping with the spirit of time , governments are setting business criteria for measuring efficiency -- and “ success , ” more generally -- of public services . this method of governance makes it seem that at long last we can hold our politicians accountable by setting goals that were passed on or filled . that means , first and foremost , that they set performance targets . so ministers restate proclaim that street-crime will be halved by the following spring , or that the share of every generation going to universities will rise to up to 50 % within five years . waiting lists for hospital beds will be slashed by one-third within two years .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo invented a new , extreme sport , the game of soccer in which he was the sole preferred player . toledo assumed that he would send all dishonest officials to jail – words that captured the imagination of peruvians , who yearned for seeing criminal politicians brought to justice . this helps to explain why , with over half of his term left , the man who led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori , held a mere 7 % of his popularity ratings today – the nadir of any peruvian leader since 1980 , when democracy was re-established . instead of kicking the ball to win , he aims to be so that his opponents ’ scores . toledo assumed the presidency planning to root out the corruption that marked fujimori ’s administrations , and ended rule by his crooked chief of intelligence directorate , vladimiro montesinos .
in 2004 , soon before the recent us presidential election , osama bin laden released a videotape that may have helped president bush beat senator john kerry . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his 1980 debates with carter is often credited with his victory . another event that could spin the tables would be an “ october surprise ” related to terrorism , which may shift an agenda from a financial crisis back to security , republican incumbents stronger suit . the mistake of a us presidential debate may turn the tide overnight of us public sentiment , as happened to us president gerald ford in his debates with jimmy carter in 1976 . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were more helpful for his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry could .
that search , after all , threatens to upset the nation ’s elite . so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who really represents what the elite stands for ? let us compare the two prospective new presidential candidates , putin in 1999 , and lugovoi in 2007 . but i see a practical turn in all of that no one has yet broached . would n’t lugovoi be set off a door in politics somehow imbuing an ideal solution to the problem of finding putin ’s heir ?
such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . empowering will always manage , but the weak will bear the burden of nostalgic protectionism that is eroding the benefits of globalization . the un sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 entirely relies on continued economic growth via trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and more broadly undermining the liberal world order will severely harm the largely poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help bring out miners in west virginia . their mythical tribe was wonderful in some mythical history , so why not trying to recreate it ?
essentially , some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . there is no question that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . others claim that spurring the innovation needed to reach high-income status calls for the state to be less like a market participant and more like a referee , a regulator , and the arbiter of economic and social priorities . state engagement is also necessary to help manage inequality and ensure an inclusive process of growth that markets alone can not count on to function . moreover , the chinese state has solved coordination problems that are not readily or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in the developing world , where market institutions and administrative capabilities may be at different stages of development .
egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders have not been stalling on the terms of much-needed international monetary fund borrowing . almost all of the political actors in egypt , as in the rest of the arab world , recognize the need for economic reform . but the country ’s leaders have not been stalling on the terms of much-needed international monetary fund borrowing . the government ’s reductions in fuel subsidies last year did not follow through on additional reform , and the required tax increases were delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it .
how many children will miss out on education , because teachers are absent from the result of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family income ? how many children will miss out on education , because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family income ? and yet , doing so might very well . our unicef survey of 126 developing-country citizens finds that among almost one-half reducing public spending , common adjustment measures include public-sector wage cuts or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization from already meager social-protection systems . such adjustments are often adopted , without careful consideration of their societal impact .
if at worst a terrorist attack were to occur , particularly one that might , to some extent , connect with refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would become a powerful one , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society . any steps they take to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists , and may lead to violence from both sides . in fact , germany ’s future could play out in just two ways . the first scenario is grim : germany has failed to integrate refugee youth and economic youth ; political discontent surges ; and newcomers have become increasingly frustrated with their plight . the world has a large stake in which scenario prevails , but it has not taken hold .
successful political transitions are also helping , if more and more citizens are arriving to feel that they “ own ” protests and the resulting transition . by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or crews – to charge into cairo ’s tahrir square , and to attack thousands of anti-government protesters – was a classic “ army like the government ” move . at this point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting the protesters . what is clear is that the interest of the “ military ” as an institution ” depends on the army ’s capacity to establish much greater detachment from the regime . in this regard , the fact that demands for mubarak ’s immediate resignation resonated with him from cairo ’s tahrir square , rather than from the obama administration , is a positive development .
evidently , american policymakers have been increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . at the same time , clearly , they will work in close partnership with ugandan forces . but do uganda ’s operation , following so closely on the libya intervention , herald a police role for the us military whenever the un or the icc , which , lacking both its own police force , rely on its members , and associate cooperation – judges that are necessary ? given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or bring its own tormentors to justice in us courts ) , such a role would leave both vulnerable to international and domestic political attack . nevertheless , the scale of america ’s cooperation with the icc has exceeded even the more constructive role suggested by the obama administration .
part of the reason they fail to do so is that most americans fail to recognize what is happening . so why not americans express themselves more outrage at their country ’s rising income inequality ? one poll found that 19 % of americans think that their incomes place them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that about 20 % more hope that they will reach the upper 1 % someday . so why not americans express themselves more outrage at their country ’s soaring income inequality ? deep in the heart of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : the belief that the future will become brighter than the present ; that what passes you with your own hand ; that individuals should rely on themselves , not the state ; that people may cross the oceans and the mountains to make for themselves a better quality of life ; and that those who succeed do not through luck and corruption but through preparation and industry . these are not the beliefs that are conducive to social democracy , for example .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity to do so . that is the course that world leaders set when they met at the united nations in new york on september 25 to adopt united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . they have emerged from what has been known as the un ’s largest summit , the un ’s “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , which was followed by the un ’s largest consultations have ever undertaken . yet , if we set our minds to it , we could be the first in human history to leave our kids nothing : no amount of greenhouse-gas emissions , no more poverty or no loss of biodiversity . the un ’s 17 range from ending poverty and improving health to protecting the planet ’s biosphere and delivering power to all .
victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and with many , with its sense of safety and even self-worth being eroded , removed from social media altogether . the german blogger , richard gutjahr , has also become the object of conspiracy theories and the target of intense harassment after being present at two terror attacks in less than two weeks . women and minorities are particularly among the victims of online harassment , but anyone could be targeted . thus , the noisiest is often rewarded by a megaphone , while less polarizing , less privileged voices are drowned out , even as they are provided with smart , nuanced perspectives that can truly enrich public debate . if an algorithm fails to do the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often tread , directing hateful , and threatens us-style speech at whomever they choose .
few rich countries are doing better than america 's . africans no vote ; they do not buy american products ; they do not undermine violence . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden . i unified out of america not because it is unique in its carelessness , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead . africans barely count in american policy ; they are far less than certain .
this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s critical distinction between risk and insecurity . hence , as he put it in 1932 , he may have experienced “ no escaping ” prolonged and possibly interminable depression , except as a direct state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” – which is precisely what the obama administration is doing right . in my view , keynes ’s main contribution to economic theory was to underscore the “ extreme precariousness ” of the basis of the knowledge on which our prospective yield estimates had to be made . on the question of what made that crash , the debate has more even been drawn . krugman is hampered by whether he attributes a crash to “ irrationality ” ” ” ” which , as cochrane emphasizes , is no theory at all .
cape town – nowadays , people are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right , doing what is economically beneficial . indeed , their choices are sometimes held as mutually exclusive , making a judgment by which to take exceedingly demanding action . sometimes , however , the moral rectitude and economic interest merge presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . the moral imperative is incontrovertible as the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperatures , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who also benefited the most from the economic activities that cause it . that is the case – from the perspectives of that archbishop and former us secretary of finance – with a world in response to climate change .
hallyday was a child of a generation that watched the american gis entering paris , and that was constructed for itself an american ascendance . abiding in each one of us was johnny that moved us all : women spent with a toss-up act , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; a father , a character out of modiano whom she called “ drinking ” ; pawned the gifts given to her abandoned son . and then there was the ’60s rocker , with the sight of the sad wolf and film cheekbones hewn of giacometti , catcher in the age of rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it appears to condemn him to live at the cutting edge of every form of excess . hallyday was a child of a generation that watched america ’s gis de paris , and that was invented for itself an american ascendance . and then there was the ’60s , rocker rocker rocker with the sight of the mughal wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher ’s rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seems to condemn him to live at the cutting edge of every form of excess .
it had , of course , been subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to financial crises of the type that we are seeing periodically today . job insecurity back then was largely unknown , and it left out of control of mass poverty . moreover , post-wwii capitalism had maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , northern america , and japan . the keys to that era of growth and happiness were powerful social welfare , and predominantly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in each of the world ’s large states . above all , every advanced economy pursued policies designed to provide high wages , thereby guaranteeing high consumption , and consequently rapid growth .
in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; in fact , there would have been no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . that seems to reflect an stance expressed by cameron and former exchequer george osborne that helped to set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued , europe needed stronger fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would not have been british financial participation in future european rescue operations . solidarity ( at least the kind that costs money ) stopped at the english channel . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration , and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s pronouncements employed the language of political ambiguity .
in this crisis , an american president should form a united front with human rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow up , sustain , and encourage those iranians who were or may not yet be apprehended or worse . what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and on other governments in the future – to reassure and account for the protesters ’ safety . in fact , barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those in support of free assembly . that will be welcome news to the people living under dictatorial regimes who have installed and propped up by american workers , and opposition leaders and journalists languishing in us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in just such protests . natan sharansky has said that this tactics – westernized tracking and demanding accountability to treat individual internal palestinian dissenters – helped break up the soviet union .
russia ’s membership in the world trade organization has the potential to increase the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . russia should be treated as a major power , implying consultations on important global issues . at the same time , there should be some understanding for what russia and the russians have gone down over the last two decades . closer ties between russia and the european union make sense for a similar reason . the loss of a country and a particular place in the world is the sort of trauma that could lead to the rise of extreme and potentially violent nationalism .
yet a consensus has emerged in brazil that a left-wing party could neither win nor handpicked with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s presidency has challenged that view . the consensus may have reflected the success of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and the growth of brazil ’s ’s ’s middle class . admittedly , investors take every type of risk , and they are ordinary . the biggest are not always the lawful about which the world bank and development agencies have taken aim ; rather , they are the business risks of a company that fails , or a polity that implodes . whatever the case , for key brazilian left leaders , including rousseff , crony capitalism has become part of the solution , rather than a core problem .
when things can be made , use , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation is diminishing dramatically . recycled materials need not be delivered to centralized processing centers , and then passed to factories . one big loser in this world will be freight ventures ( along with junkyards , logistics firms , and centralized recycling operations ) . products will not need to be made in those factories , and then shipped to customers or busting centers . to be sure , my reduced cost will still be someone else ’s reduced revenue – and not only apple .
by 2050 , the global human population is expected to surpass nine billion , up from just three billion today . yet chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in developing countries that suffer the most from crop failure and food-price volatility . achieving food security means ensuring that everyone has a consistent , affordable access to wellbeing , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and a growing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . surmounting these challenges will not be an easy task . london – in the 1960s – the green revolution – – which included developing high-yielding crop varieties ; expanding irrigation infrastructure ; and distributing modern fertilizers and pesticide to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production worldwide .
europe is for turkey “ “ a principle of moderation ” and an enticement to remain democratic . indeed , for many years , erdoğan ’s domestic critics have denounced what they described as the regime ’s “ putinization ” . turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence felt elsewhere in the world . in reality , turkey needs europe just as badly as europe needs turkey . but , for that matter , history may be changing fast .
on the contrary , experience indicates that governments are often struggling to align public expenditure with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats until they reach the crisis point . that is just over 0.5 % of annual us military budgets of roughly $ 718 billion . in fact , over the past year , an estimated 430,000 fighting deaths have surpassed that of roughly 430,000 fighting deaths , on average , in world war i , world war ii , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . far more people have died of cervical cancer last year than in combat . yet , in the us , government expenditures for cancer averages about $ 4 billion a year .
a journalist visiting saudi arabia ’s united kingdom recently asked me why five of the six students he interviewed at king saud university still believe that al qaida was not responsible for the attack on the world trade center and the americas last year ? i used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . i used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . by my expectation , i had the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and begin looking deep into our national psyche ; to ask a large question , “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a way ? ” so far , the us is no closer than it was after an assault on answering this question , because it can not even find the nerve to question it . so far , the us is no closer than it was after an assault to answer its response to answering this question , for it can even find the nerve to question it .
moreover , income inequality has widened , with the global phenomenon of increasing wealth concentration at the very top very pronounced in many arab countries . whereas tunisia was an extreme case of the regime furthering the economic interests of a tiny clique of under-represented insiders , the pattern was widespread . that is why a knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” ” ” ” the prescription of more trade liberalization and privatization is inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . there is a clear political imperative for a growth strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece , not an afterthought . top incomes in those countries have stemmed largely from political patronage , rather than from innovation and hard work .
indeed , trump ’s recent actions are not just about trade , but about america ’s departure from pax americana itself . trump ’s protectionist policies thus call into question the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950 ’s . few countries are more attuned to the post-war order than to germany , which , like japan ’s , owes its post-war economic resurgence to a rules-based trading system . germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means that it is acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by major trading partners . but that is no longer the case , either .
part of the unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs . france holds some of the highest labor costs for its hourly employees in the eu , and a natural consequence is tepid hiring . during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on boosting france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year , reducing the unemployment rate to below 6 % . the easiest way to achieve both ends would be to focus on where france under-employed relative to the other eu countries . with inequality also grows , many french are justifiably upset that labor taxes far beyond the means of capital gains .
nonetheless , putin ’s approval ratings remain at around 80 % . in early december , putin signed the federal budget that foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , together with tough economic sanctions imposed by the american and european central bank , meant that russia ’s government anticipated a decline in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp by late month , and that following budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , he estimates that by the end of this year , russia will be spending 70 % of the excess-fund fund accrued over the past decade , or so , when oil prices were high . as long as low oil prices persist , and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of cash until late 2016 .
given that libra takes a form of private money tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ? if argentina ’s people could shift from pesos to a basket of stable currencies , with the sole touch of their smartphones , would n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first sign of trouble in the domestic economy ? but , of course , libra is being sold as much . a standard “ efficient market ” analysis does n’t help us answer that question , because , in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting . given that libra takes the form of private money tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ?
during april , the rise of inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation did occur more or less currently . as a result , this is a large plus for sustaining economic recovery . the most recent rising euro has also helped keep down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations have worsened slightly in euro-zone countries . yields on a ten-year german bond that might have been expected to remain higher , owing to worsening inflationary expectations during this period , have barely shifted around the corner . should bush , bernanke , or new treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in american financial assets at some point in time , a rising euro will help to shield european interest rates from their consequences .
of the six larger eu member states , only france has a genuinely well-defined centralized political system . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wishes to abolish the union ’s 1707 act , with forward-looking eu decisions due to the scottish referendum in 2014 . this political entity is a precise counterpart in the political world to a well-known physical facet of a splintering or an fissuring on one another . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful variety of small and medium-size political units . of the six larger eu states that encompassed only france has a genuinely well-defined centralized political system . when stressed , a large background bifurcates at big chunks , but then disintegration continues into smaller and smaller fragments .
once that trust breaks down , bad things eventually happen . we do not grow up wishing to work for croatia and liars . just as we obey our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trusted their judgment , entrust our careers , and rewarding our money for those who run citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks , because we believe that their leaders will be fair for their workers and clients , and snarrowest , honorable in their business practices . money , therefore , is about confidence , without which no society can function . we believe in banknotes , because we collectively decide to trust a government when it says that a 100 is 100 , not ten , or even 50 .
he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , not to rage – in a sharp contrast with , say , yugoslavia ’s violent breakup . ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not be saved ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s basic decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . like francis and sanders , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer . despite rising to power with support from the kgb , he did not surrender his thought processes to that machine , in the manner that president vladimir putin appears to have made . likewise , far from fitting the liberal machine ’s mold , sanders is working to pull the party back “ toward the social democratic left where it belongs . ”
those in the developing world who believe that there has been a history of bargaining in bad faith have a powerful case to do so . whatever economics , taking that route may be tougher today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that accept what is universally viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators then throw around large numbers , when describing the gains from even imperfect agreement . america ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . that leaves developing countries faced with a hard choice : are they better off accepting the crumbs on offer for them to them ? unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators then throw around the big numbers when describing the gains from even an imperfect agreement .
princeton – recently , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most powerful data-accelerator , located near geneva on the european nuclear research organization ( cern ) – announced that it was last month ’s commemoration of the discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson . four years ago , doomsayers predicted that the lhc would produce the microscopic black holes that would swallow the earth at a time of months . the latter-day nostrums provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , the high-energy particle physics experiments . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete , beyond one crucial matter : the black holes . these prophets were , of course , neither the former nor the last of their species .
monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during its democratization process of the late 1980s and 1990s , successive governments attempted to tame the hyperinflation that reached an estimated 2,477 % in 1993 . today , as central bankers in the developed world fret over the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to react with widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation . instituting the “ actual plan , ” ” launched in 1994 , succeeded in restraining annual price growth to the “ tolerable ” ” ” ” 22 % by the following year . riding on chile ’s plan success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , the former economy minister , was doubly elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concern about price stability .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at that year ’s world economic forum became grim . most chastened of all were central bankers , but also of the internet . and it was not only the major bankers in davos doghouse earlier this year , but also their regulators , too , brought to bear . those who think that the advent of globalization , technology , as well as a market economy , will fix the world ’s problems seem subdued . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , as well as the weakening of the us stock market , these “ universe masters ” seem to have been less omniscient than done just a short time ago .
the european central bank has been providing a large amount of emergency “ liquidity ” to banks , which it is using to purchase even more government debt . this keeps interest rates on that short run , but creates even bigger potential losses when a potential default appears . diamond has discovered that , ultimately , trump ’s bankers – at least in the united kingdom . now , in view of the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone periphery , us government defaults are threatening to take down big banks . the banks and policy are deeply intertwined in each of the advanced economies , and they are back to the core .
even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , since the 1980s , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure has become an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to wasteful and inefficiencies in existing production systems . despite low average growth rates , disposable income grew at an annual rate of more than 6 % during the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective socioeconomic policies . this could be addressed by fine-tuning the division of labor in favor of infrastructure investment and governance between the public and private sectors with a goal of crowding in the latter . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s total productivity should improve in the years ahead .
according to the latest data running through july or august for most countries , there are only 14 instances of high inflation ( the red line in the figure ) . venezuela ( which did not publish official inflation statistics earlier this year ) and argentina ( which did not release reliable inflation figures for a few years ) figure prominently in this group . meanwhile , the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( the greens ) is higher in 2015 than it was when countries experiencing double-digit annual inflation ( 7 % of gdp ) . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a few african countries comprise the remainder . in the immediate aftermath of the subprime oil shocks of the 1970s until early 1980s , almost two-thirds of countries recorded annual inflation rates above 10 % .
for the most part , the quick fixes that they have imposed so far have been severely successful . in failing to provide sufficient funding , one may simply let the universities have deteriorated . for the most part , the quick fixes that they have imposed thus far have not been very successful . overcrowded classrooms in often inadequate physical surroundings , without the requisite equipment , have led to ever longer study periods , a deterioration in equity-level quality , and much adversity among both students and professors . there is , of course , an alternative to higher education .
only war ’s bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . for years , they have tried to convey their grievances through peaceful means . as a political activist in the last days of yugoslavia , i attempted to build upon the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . the need for kosova to be liberated from milosevic ’s grip was so visible for a whole decade . two million farc have suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of their life , from basic security to education .
the phenomenon lasted many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , established in 1928 . yet , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt ’s return power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia has been its only success . at the same time , nation-building efforts along secular lines were reflected in egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party , the resulting establishment of the united arab republic , the union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world were the product of neither policy inclination nor a reflection of widespread popular rejection by dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . tunisia adopted its new constitution on june 27 , thereby clearing the way for what would become the country ’s most secular and reformist elections in any part of the arab countries .
berlin – the way we eat in the industrialized world is unsound , unfair , and unsustainable . worldwide , an estimated 300 million tons of meat is produced each year , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that annual gdp will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 , if demand continues to grow at its current pace . far too much of the meat that we consume is being produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions . and now our industrial model for meat production is being exported to the global south – in particular , india and china – where meat consumption is rising among these countries ’ leading middle classes . so vast amounts of meat can simply be produced on an industrial scale and at high social , political , and ecological costs .
cambridge – for some time now , the four horsemen of america ’s macroeconomic policymaking process has been taxation , regulation , commerce and infrastructure . having studied the first in detail , i have found tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . a fourth area exists only in greece ’s rhetoric : infrastructure programs currently are not part of a macroeconomic policy repertoire . the third area is highly relevant today , one reason why trade tensions are so troubling today . although i was thought of as the second area in less detail , the evidence suggests that regulation was at best a minor contributor to growth .
as gordon notes , a protracted period of productivity dividends associated with urbanization were taking place – a trend that could have persisted for at least another ten years in china . but the time will come when that tailwind subsides and china begins to converge on the so-called frontier of advanced economies . without robust innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle . at that point , china will confront the same productivity challenges that confront america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk .
but the plan was projected to depress economic activity further , failing to establish the appropriate basis for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would need . sad as it may sound , the opportunity facing puerto rico ’s fiscal ship was not covered . on the contrary , the oversight board has recently certified a new fiscal plan , and an agreement with holders of bonds issued by the puerto rico urgent interest-rate fund ( cofina ) that could place the island in the debt straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 billion , holdings of cofina bonds ( backed by future ballooning tax revenues ) accounts for more than one-third of total debt under the new us fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , based on an unrealistic public assessment of dysfunctional public conditions .
we have raised awareness of the plight of the displaced , brought about by changes in government policies and raised billions of dollars to respond to their fundamental needs . with at risk , the achievements are notable , if not insufficient . indeed , ten years on , what impact is having on internally displaced people ’s lives ? this has helped to save countless lives , which is why some of the rest of us have had at least two billion dollars of education efforts . humanitarian efforts remain reinforcing , including through a new quickly funded mechanism , the un ’s central emergency response fund .
andrew carnegie , veblen ’s wealthiest man , was blunt his moral judgments . wearing a watch that costs 200 times more than one who does a better job of keeping time says otherwise , even after dressing down people who are not re-enacting a relatively poor country . “ a man who dies the rich , ” he is often quoted as saying , “ die disgraced . ” essentially , such a person says ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or just plain selfish . ” we can adjust that judgment to a man or woman running on a $ 30,000 watch , or buy similar luxury goods through a form of $ 12,000 handbag .
in this monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the idea – almost universally anticipated by economists , and , by many philosophers from david hume onward – that the role of reason is to tell us how to get what we want but not tells us about what to choose . on the contrary , parfit argued , desires could be irrational . indeed , he shows that both “ total ” and “ average ” responses have paradoxical or counterintuitive consequences . but then , so has each other ’s response , which has been proposed since parfit animated the problem , and some other philosophers have started to offer their own solutions . if reasons and humans could easily be trifled by three separate books , on what matters really is : the first of two volumes published in 2011 , whereas a third , in the press once parfit ’s died , has just emerged .
by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , schools , and communities just as well . furthermore , we must cut mental-health inequitable , a frequently ignored topic . this is often an issue in lower-income communities , where populations may be at greater risk of pathology , and often confront top hurdles to getting care right , partly owing to a shortage of specialized resources in wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to tackling this problem , such as from zimbabwe ’s “ friendship bench ” ; and i look forward to learning more about that project from one of its interlocutors in davos . seeking mental-health care should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high bloodletting , diabetes , or cardiac condition .
experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack due to dubai ’s run is small . but the damage inflicted by the attack may be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways terrorists could smuggle nuclear weapons to america . because of this , americans can not afford to take even minutest of their chances with their own ports , the consequences of error are too staggering for a contemplate . the american public understands this , even if their own president does not . should the damage inflicted by any terror attack also be small .
first , revolutions in the arab world and nato ’s military intervention in libya have re-cast the alliance ’s attention concerning both the middle east and northern africa . second , the international financial crisis will have an enormous impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us defense secretary robert gates reinvigorated discussion of trans-atlantic burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance . but the four political developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into a high-level summit in its own right . finally , the first nato summit – which was to be held in the united states in 13 – takes place not only in an election year , but also in president barack obama ’s own hometown .
together , they manage the vast areas of our planet , including 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . together , they manage vast areas of our planet , including 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . yet smallholders can not ignore when it comes to a climate-change solution : a world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production , and provide up to 80 % of their food supply in developing countries . can we really be counted on to make these farmers , many of them desperately poor , assume a leadership role in addressing the twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ? we believe that the answer to the two questions is a resounding yes .
during the past decade , foreigners have been barred from making investments in more than 40 industries designated as “ critical to national security ” national security . that ban , while beneficial for industry insiders , reduced russia ’s access to financial markets and , more critically , into the new technologies that follow putin ’s lead . one such reform would be to expand the access of foreign investment . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russian isolation further , as has the country ’s own rush to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright prohibitions on food imports from the european union and the us . lifting these restrictions would not only give the economy an immediate boost , but would also boost long-term gdp growth .
in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany remained deeply hesitant about eu enlargement . but the uk ’s support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to embrace the eu ’s long-stated goal of being ever-closer union ” ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – made it no secret of their desire to use widening eu membership to avoid deepening european integration . the relationship between the cee countries and the uk was always rather fraying . should he dominate the referendum and persuade electorates to remain , he sends a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe . during the brexit negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the june referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clauses in may ’s decision to move toward ever-closer union .
entrepreneurial majors should study an economic and political history to avoid becoming blind determinists . economists need to learn from engineering students because they will engineers building a future labor force . and law students should focus on the intersection of big data and human rights , so that they can gain the insight required to defend people from forces capable of turning individuals into disposable pieces . and workers of the future will require training in ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the worth of human beings can no longer take for granted . educators preparing their students to this future must start now .
severe breaches can result from both reprimands or dismissals . in my experience , roughly 99 % of all censorship occurs with the help of writers and producers alone . sporadic grievances and warnings from above are enabling them to develop an intuitive sense of the boundaries of acceptable content , thereby creating evidence that free from offending material at the very outset . the top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; the lower level has little collaborative input and no correct appeal . in effect , the system has become largely self-regulating .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s decision to extend the diet ’s current session to 95 days last month , until september 27 , making for the longest continuous session in the japanese parliament in postwar history . abe ’s action come at the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he broke with a japanese tradition . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines . the reason is obvious : abe is set to pass a set of national-security bills enabling the reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution , which enables the country to play a larger role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . for the last 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 took a spotlight on economic debates at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world , ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hotspots , and have recommended action or , more often , inaction .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put enlargement back on hold until the arrival of the russian and american presidential elections had passed . to underline this , thatcher ’s first foreign policy activity after returning from his summer ’s holiday was a visit in early september to an ailing boris yeltsin , with whom kohl had us-friendly relations . he instructed ministers not to discuss the matter , publicly , and suggested that talks could not be left in the hands of nato machinery alone . that visit , for the first time , voiced another appeal not to the rush of nato enlargement . in germany ’s parliament , konrad adenauer announced that yeltsin , following his operation , would “ renew the necessary dialogue and address concrete issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … and i ’ve been able to reach agreement with president bill chirac , president chirac , and the prime minister , important that we will now refrain from dealing with the important matters of the nato-russia enlargement into a certain framework that moscow has no feeling the creation of fiat acpli . ”
the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values , which implies a harsher emphasis on individual liberty and individual responsibility . at the same time , these changes are triggering changes in people ’s consciousness , not less . in such a world without utopia , individual liberty is at the upper end of their value . yet , as with any change of such magnitude , holdouts come out there . it is only this , fogel believes , can explain recent trends in longevity , body size , durability of vital organs , and chronic illness .
london – the severity of the euro crisis has finally sunk in . governments and the international financial community have scrambled to put together solutions within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . now , eurozone leaders must aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . so far , many questions have been answered about design ; implementation will be at least as demanding . the stakes could not be higher .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . washington , dc , while much of the developed world rightly worries about myriad privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and demanding – and securing – and preparing – for individuals a fair right to be forgotten , ” many around the world are posing a very different question : what about the right to be seen ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of casualties in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico . the swiss federal national health office has also overseen the experiment in prescribing heroin intended to people living with opiate dependency for significant periods . the swiss federal government ’s emergency office has also overseen the experiment in prescribing heroin intended to persons living with opiate dependence on significant periods . the swiss re-examining its government ’s own drug policies with a pragmatic eye . health professionals have taken the lead in campaigning for the government – through direct democracy mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users to public-health policies based on scientific evidence of what works .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence ( ai ) will have on the functioning of our economies and labor-market practices has long been a hot topic . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets has been the ability to earn huge returns in high-speed trading by becoming a micro-second “ ahead of everyone else . ” yet jerry kaplan of the recent book humans need not apply : a conduit to wealth and to jobs in the age of artificial intelligence has impressed me the true magnitude of socioeconomic stakes . yet another is the capacity for price discrimination through new electronic market makers like uber , which is thus fitting every penny from the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . soon a new kind of strengthened uber could emerge , integrating car , bus , ships , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into one super-app .
to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping $ 4.5 billion – lack safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . with an increasing share of the world ’s population – including many of the same people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climatic changes firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protection , water provision , and health may not be even more important . in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments over time , including differentiating the sdgs that are needed from desirable . global public health and vital conservation professionals must collaborate more closely to identify these solutions – and persuade policymakers to pursue it .
this has been an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model is based on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than for electricity usage . true , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , constantly assessing how innovations will affect the status quo , specifically their for-profit pools . in addition , disruptive technologies will cause value shifts among the economy ’s industries , as occurred when cable tv overtook communication , or , more recently , when the online media gained predominance over print publication . firms in every industry now must invest in understanding the new technologies to ensure that it is ready to seize opportunities , or mount rapid defense . true , ceos and other top managers need a technologists , or at least technology-savvy , constantly evaluate how innovations will affect the status quo , specifically their for-profit pools .
over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global goals to be met by 2030 . while the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than they had in 1991 , 209 million fewer than they had been starving . by 2013 , the share had plummeted , to 13.5 % . over the last 22 years , the world has been able to feed nearly two billion more people inadequately – no small feat . the task amounts to this generation of our greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete goals . at the same time , over the next 22 years , the world ’s top 193 governments will come together to establish
in light of recent memory with the violent french revolution , the british elite has grudgingly agreed to democratizing reform . ultimately , the reform act of 1832 abolished the slain boroughs , extending that franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . 15 people were killed and many more injured in what is now remembered as the peterloo massacre . ultimately , the greed and corruption of that era was satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book a gilded age : the narrative of today . likewise , the united states went though the period of rose-tinted industrialization in the 1980s and 1880 ’s .
narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british disease : across the west , much of the public viewed globalization as leaderless , lacking a human face , and akin to an uncontrollable runaway train . what makes things even worse in britain still bears many gross flaws of political judgment during and following its 2016 referendum campaign . yet , thanks to farage , and farage , and farage , who took over the governing conservative party , an act of economic self-harm that apparently runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . moderate leaders everywhere must now react not just to economic discontent over the millions that are losing out , but to france ’s cultural pessimism and his dismissal of politicians as they are somehow “ inscribed ” that new york is giving succor to a populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . moderate leaders everywhere must respond not only to economic discontent with the millions under their defeat , but also to cultural pessimism and the dismissal of politicians as they are “ “ “ in it ” attitude just to themselves ” giving succor to populist nationalism promoted by trump ’s cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk .
a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many were contradictory and overlapping . the ande has proposed creating a new court by amending the un constitution . each firm and its business association must decide the best-laid strategies and tactics to pursue a course of conflict and duplication . it succeeded because of strong public support for fighting corruption . the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflict and duplicate conflicts .
a year ago , everyone gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what the us stands up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , and to dispose of state assets at its will . in the evicting of that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism ended . in the evicting of that regime , we believed , this form of absolutism ended . instead , those who benefited from the regime = s were adamant that their rights to the property that they stolen were inviolate . in the absence of formal legal rights existed , there was no court of law to rely on these rights when our rulers saw their own interests as such .
one community was provided with a continuous approach to micronutrient and protein supplement that was called atole . another community nearby had the same program , except that micronutrient provision was provided without a protein . for former children who had been accepted atole , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half . they remained in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive exams in adulthood , and tended to be employed in higher-paying , skilled workers . moreover , in-patients visited mothers during pregnancy and provided access to free medical services .
cambridge : from day one , the coalition was riven by feuds . rather than blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he had left the country , coalition members were accusing each other . ministers acted like adversaries , rather than partners . such squabbling appears to be the postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power .
though the economy was at full employment , the us rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s . in that sense , the yellow vest uprising in france is not unlike a french brexit , in that it amounts to a act of firing oneself in the foot . they were joined by well-organized trading unions , which helped the movement reach its critical mass , at least temporarily . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not through utopia but through despair . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french adopted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone throwing at it .
what strikes me the most is that she sees , even then , beginnings in tribal conflicts and a coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . it feels that , in acting as it has done , she faithfully represents her most cherished values and convictions . she feels that , in acting as she has done , she is faith-based to her most cherished values and convictions . she feels threatened by early human-rights violations , notably by the rights of women , which she fears will multiply . and she has no doubt that the west , in response to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , avoided a replay of srebrenica in northern africa .
while china ’s charm offensive is very recent , its contours are already clear . over the past six months , the united states has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of cozying up to china , adopting an eu containment strategy . like singapore ’s largest trade partner , china will offer appealing trade terms to its neighbors , much as it did with singapore . at the same time , america ’s most prominent feature is trade . over the past six months , america has abandoned its four-decade-old politics of engagement with china , adopting an eu containment strategy .
london – “ shorting ” ” is a tactic well known among the financial cognoscenti . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in anticipation of a gain when its value is going down . a speculator can “ short ” a government by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it another day at cut-rate , and for pocketing the difference . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , my view is that the games will quickly appeal to the greeks . i borrow at face value , amounting to € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for just over six months . a speculator can “ borrow , ” at face value , of € 10 million of greece ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs after six months .
jordan ’s diverse tribal structure was reflected in newly established web sites , some creating with tacit backing – and even funding – from security agencies or other formal or strategic groups . moreover , many were launching news web sites exclusively for financial gain . indeed , the lack of restrictions allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . taking advantage of news media ’s implicit authority , it publicized any potentially damaging blast conversation on individuals or groups with means and influence , second offered to removing the narrative in exchange for an underpaid advertisement , or outright cash payment . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried the character assassination of online news media , and demanded that the government establish the unruly regulatory framework .
the poison of terrorism has now ripped into the un ’s humanitarian work with the tragic bombardment of its iraqi mission headquarters . dozens of innocent people have been killed , including one of the world ’s most senior peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush has reiterated his determination to wage war on terrorism . yet the bombing raises political questions that are asking answers . other leaders have declared that the un is not meant to abandon its mission .
to strengthen russia ’s political clout over georgian ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without taking trouble to ask for permission from georgian ’s democratically elected leaders , has launched constructing a chinese-backed gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . yet they are truly illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give russian passports to these regions ’ residents attests . though there has not been any discontinuity of gas deliveries from tbilisi to south ossetia , that step is needed for the kremlin to ensure even more integration of this georgian regions into russia ’s national economic system . now russia threatens to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s province of kosovo as an independent nation-state . to the extent that the vast majority of the residents of abkhazia and south ossetia regions already receive russian citizenship , recognition of those two regions ’ sovereignty would be totally fictitious and practically an interim measure on the path to annexation by russia .
the sad truth is that many of today ’s great elites seem to have learned nothing from history , and to think and act as if interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the true world . back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves by thinking that they could take control of their countries a vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s bizarre behavior and appearances , he remained the best line of defense against communism . surely , the sad truth is that trump may be going a bit too far with the chinese on trade , but it has also been asking them the right issues . so long as trump remains good for business , they appear unspooked that he represents the single biggest threat to america ’s psyche and values and demands its image and interests abroad .
the eu ’s ’s privacy crackdown is threatening to undermine all of this . not only will this generates administrative burden through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the genuine possibility that the new rules may undermine the business model of many of europe ’s most prominent online companies . in all likelihood , the industry ’s revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as europe ’s overall economy has stagnated . even more worryingly , this would open the door for provisions outlawing the benevolent , low-risk data mining that drives online advertising . online ads allow eu citizens to access information , educational material , code channels , and entertainment sites without being paid directly , and the amount that they are spent on it in europe is rising fast .
a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda , for example , found that adolescent girls often missed their school , owing to the lack of access to clean sanitary products . but , at the time , the silence surrounding the natural processes of menstruation must break up , in order to ensure that women and girls could acquire the sanitary products they need at an affordable price . today , a bloody good period donates sanitary products – including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers every month . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . but when re-usable sanitary pads and education for menstruation were provided to girls in just eight schools , attendance rose at an average rate of 17 % .
morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” created a decisive – though undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step to break the impasse . already , he backed off twice : once in july 2012 , having abandoned his effort , under pressure from the chief justice of the workers ’ council , to reinstate the elected parliament ; and once he attempted to strip the public prosecutor by making egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . but , for many revolutionaries , there were more ways to sack a tainted prosecutor , defining the judiciary . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” created a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step to break the impasse . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike down laws , rendering the effort meaningless .
at the same time , the trump administration has unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear-posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low yield ” nuclear-related facilities that would deliver by a submarine a nuclear-bombing equivalent in power to those that devastated hiroshima and nagasaki in august 1945 . moreover , it amounts to betraying a longstanding american commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . in foreign policy , american secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the revival of the monroe doctrine – a nineteenth-century assertion of america ’s primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to disengage from european competitors – in central and south america , in order to curb china ’s increasing us influence . tillerson stoked nostalgia for 1823 was not a shared south of the border , where , as one mexican commentator pointed out , the monroe doctrine served to justify gringo interventions , ” ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us .
unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such actions will prove futile in managing capital inflows . at the same time , the governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed in order to enhance their legitimacy in emerging markets . in other emerging markets , too , the main challenge is to ensure that each country ’s macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . policymakers in both advanced and emerging-market countries alike should focus on the underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than on trying to treat signs by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting the collective problems associated with macroeconomic-policy spillovers to provide crisis-related insurance .
while the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , american leaders have largely failed to recognize the complete struggles of middle-class households , far fewer implementation of effective counter-measures . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle classes tend to be predominantly the result of two factors : the rapidly loss of white – and blue-collar jobs to automation , and the shift of middle - and lower-value-added jobs to countries with lower-labor-cost costs . the latter pattern of depressed incomes and rising wage growth , not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable service industries , owing to the spillover of the displaced working-age population . the latter pattern of depressed incomes and rising wage growth , not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable service sectors , owing to the spillover of the displaced . the fall in labor bargaining power and the falling genuine minimum wage may have also contributed to income polarization , though these are probably secondary factors .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . zurich – finland , ’s central-bank governor , olli rehn – has reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . an institution ’s upcoming leadership change – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s governance managing director since coming to power in late 2011 – will likely succeed mario draghi as us president again offers an important opportunity to heed that call . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
for decades europe constituted the world ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region , a place in the world where history seemed to have all but ended . yet a dramatic reversal has come to europe as a whole . one factor is the willingness and capacity shown by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda . in fact , such scenarios were unimaginable , until only very recently . the goal of making the continent a peaceful , whole and free was largely realized .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme for this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of a host of many planned infrastructure projects globally that is officially regarded as environmentally sound , despite posing serious environmental risks . for example , construction is almost completed on a railroad line through kenya ’s renowned nairobi national team , despite public outrage at “ an incomplete and incompetent ” business-climate impact assessment .
in many ways , these steps succeeded : monetary expansion played a major role in pushing the economy back from the brink . but , over time , central banks ’ capacity to affect the real economy declined . today , and for the foreseeable future , there is a growing sense that domestic inflation , rather than local , trends and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policies , has been far more influential than monetary policy . for the ecb , this generates an especially serious challenge . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereigns , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination .
looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , we may be seeing the true effect of a urban heat island . in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above surrounding countryside , reaching 40oc – a scorching heat that affected not only downtown areas , but also cover some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the fastest-growing major cities are in asia . looking at a fast-growing urban like houston , texas , we may see the true effect of a urban heat island . there are an even more dramatic increase in tokyo today . beijing is just roughly 10 ° c hotter than a nearby jurisdiction , and 5.5 ºc hotter in night .
and as coworkers began to exercise jointly , enlightened employers came to see such recreation as a precious source of physical and mental well-being . some people saw these changes happening , and they were concerned about them . a growing minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in school or factories , but in leisure settings . gyms were becoming new sources of community . the sweat of one ’s brow no longer linked to productive work , but rather with consumption – often conspicuous consumption .
some , such as the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote of eu membership . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved to be particularly divisive . according to the european council on foreign relations , eu 32 referenda are being demanded in 18 eu countries across the eu . others want to escape travel to europe , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or reduce labor mobility . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared his intention to hold a referendum on proposed quotas .
the main problem , though , is that obama has been unable to confront , placing himself in to rest , america ’s labor unions have been imperiled by the kind of fear-driven hostility to trade . since the early of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has been inadequate . he has stated repeatedly that exporting is good for america : they create jobs . he needs a reminder that imports are also good : he can surely ask his audience to think about jobs in us cargo aircraft , freight trains , and trucks doing imports to the american interior . yet america ’s exports include other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs .
it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . now , it was regarded as healthily promethean to turn wealth into money , and to put it to work to generate more money , for by doing that one benefit humankind . in fact , usury ( making redeeming cash ) amounted to an offense against divine man . this inspired the american way of life , where money invariably talks . the end of capitalism meant simply the end of an inducement to listen .
addressing drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers is doing nothing to curb demand ; but usage rates have failed to decline . poland is also choosing to treat possession of even the smallest amount of its drugs as criminal , as illustrated by the fact that roughly 60 % of people sentenced to drug-possession in poland are legal marijuana smokers . addressing drug use via criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand ; on the contrary , usage rates have failed to decline . it is this pattern that persists across central and eastern europe , where eu governments have also chosen to imprison drug-users . rather than focusing on the treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to longstanding rehabilitation centers located in far-away countries with little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a great , risky experiment . key interest rates have remained near zero for at least six years now . crisis management has produced major market distortions , with some segments of it ’ performance no longer squeezed by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly apparent and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies . with world markets flooded with liquidity , financial markets are flooded with abandon .
the threats have varied and become more global . nato is developing a ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territories against a grave and growing threat . in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union , and increasing its number of others to police major sea-lanes threatened by pirates . nato is developing a ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territories at odds with grave and growing threats . and in countries around the world , it carries tasks like de-mining , catastrophe relief , advising on how to bring military forces under democratic control , and working closely with the un to avoid harm to its children .
while china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel companies has left it in a deep environmental hole , its leaders are determined to climb out . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock by betting on resuscitation of dying – and by deadly – fossil-fuel industries . describing a shift toward electric vehicle as a jobs killer , trump has advocated ending federal subsidies that encourage indigenous advances , manufacture and purchases , such as the $ 7,500 of the us federal consumer tax credit . to promote sales , us buyers are exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – a $ 10,000 per vehicle ) . and , anticipating an eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are lending generous subsidies to domestic manufacturing .
but to calculate an appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice . it would also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , making it all but somewhat perilous . moreover , a tax would likely have regressive distributional consequences , harming poor countries the most . provided that it is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would advance global welfare beyond being compatible with the world trade organization rules . the measure could also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , making this somewhat perilous matter .
ideally , such cooperation would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . moreover , article 138 would allow unified eurozone representation in the international monetary fund and the world bank . eurozone countries , together with others willing to join the eu in the future ( the eurozone plus ” ) , might simply decide to use the legal means already available for enhancing cooperation . if all of the eurozone ’s members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could , on the other hand , be used to support their action.the scope of this provision – which says , “ the [ european peoples ’ council shall adopt measures specific to [ europe ’s ] member states , ” and that “ only [ european ] member states … takes part in the vote ” – is wide . by then , the grouping could expand cooperation to include three additional policy areas :
and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , iceland ’s bishop , has warned that the ban effectively would turn judaism and islam into criminalized religions , ” ” ” because anyone practicing circumcision could have been subjected to prison for up to six years in prison . for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center countered that female circumcision was an integral part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill yields “ a contravention [ of ] religious liberty . ” complicating matters further , the two sides base their arguments on human rights . gunnarsdóttir accept that “ everybody has the right ” to believe in what they want , the ” but insists that , “ children ’s rights come above a right to believe . ” for example , some supporters of the ban argue that circumcision violates article 5 of the landmark universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that “ no one is subjected ” to torture or brutal , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment .
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little impact on a state like north korea ’s , which is weakly coupled with the global economy . “ persistent engagement ” may nonetheless support deterrence on such challenging circumstances . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to classic instruments of nuclear deterrence – punishment and denial , for that matter , because they assess the possibility of deterrence and coercion in cyberspace . likewise , they should pay attention to entangling mechanisms of entanglement and norms . to be sure , entering any adversary ’s web and disrupting attacks creates the danger of escalation .
nevertheless , more will be needed to restore financial stability , for example , enlarging the total firepower of the european financial stability facility ( efsf ) . here , the eu summit in brussels in december was an important step forward in promoting deepening political union and enhancing governance among the eurozone ’s member states . reaffirming a more stringent and rigorous stability pact is also imperative to achieve greater integration . moreover , if we want the eu to emerge strengthened from its crisis , it must strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , for which , in the absence of growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s problems can not be solved . more fundamentally , the eu must tie up its economic strategies to fixed competitiveness , which ultimately determines the value-added tax on goods and services .
in 2007 , the volume of shadow-banking transactions in the u.s. exceeded that of conventional banking assets . it is ultimately funded through retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products , and private capital . shadow banking in china is dominated by borrowing to higher-risk borrowers such as local governments , property developers , and small enterprises . the financial stability board has estimated that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 totaled $ 67 trillion , with american accounting payments amounting to $ 23 trillion , the eurozone as a whole , amounting to $ 22 trillion , and with the united kingdom at $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion , owing to reductions in financial prices .
in 2009 , obama reenvisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s robust commitment . in 2011 , he asserted that only both sides ’ willingness could ensure a successful outcome . clearly , an american alone can do little to resolve the conflict . after all , there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there is a few factors worth pondering : the surge in the number of asymmetrical conflicts , in which conventional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent adversaries ; and major political differences between a centrist american president and a us congress that has been dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . but obama himself bears a large part of the blame .
in the future , however , this kind of trade will likely become less important . with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage is fast diminishing . as economists like mit economist david autor have shown , the impact that this has been felt in advanced countries may be both bad for some workers and for good corporate earnings . with wages in china now rising fast , its labor-cost advantage is fast diminishing . true , china has ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without the trade-based legislation initially spurred by labor-cost differentials .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging , and what a lower share of its working-age population means for the country ’s economic development ? nowadays , most of the demographic projections for china stem from the country ’s overall fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – essentially unchanged over 20 years . but , population-survey data , released by the us national statistics , indicate that the tfr has been less than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ newly published report , the world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , inserting it among low fertility countries . a prolonged period of low fertility means that china ’s ’s population is aging , and growth in the working-age population is slowing . can – and should – anything be done , especially to the country ’s “ one child ” policy , slowing the trend ?
after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targeting the rate of inflation . until the currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging-market and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . but they repeatedly missed their targets , too . the problem with these monetary-policy targeting approaches is that , while a particular numerical target may be sensible when it is set , successive unforeseen developments often make the goal difficult to live with . many then switched to inflation targeting ; but they tend to miss such targets even more often than advanced countries .
in reality , the dangers now confronting europe as a consequence of socializing debts are far greater than those generated by simply a possible financial crisis . the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that it takes the eurozone to develop sovereign insolvency procedures as soon as possible , to prevent other sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization . if you lend to a friend , she will no longer be a boyfriend . unless this wisdom is heeded , it will be impossible to hold europe together . if europe ’s national governments are to help another crisis , they should unilaterally provision of humanitarian aid without conditionality , and without redemption .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects the hungarians living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah within european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house and outlined him as “ respected ” all over europe . trump , for his part , is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house , describing him as “ respected everywhere over europe . ” to be sure , trump ’s republican party is using similar tactics . evidently , trump and his advisers have learned a great deal from orbán about racist immigration policies and about the country ’s eroding democracy .
making matters worse , orbán has demolished hungary ’s civil service independence and thoroughly politicized the rule of law . trump is doing much the same , with the result that the american government now loses around 94 % of its regulatory cases . while orbán has invoked economic pressure to force the closure of hungarian opposition media , trump has described the us press as “ the people ’s enemy ” and compromised libel actions against critical outlets . simultaneously , trump has purged some 17,000 public officials by firing us state agencies , sealed the administration , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open debate about how to formulate and execute policy . by politicizing us administrative agencies , starting with the capture of the administration ’s justice department and pledging to manufacture ideological judicial appointments , trump is now far along his quest to crush america ’s rule of law .
to decide not to challenge these data , folta continues , and instead to publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data , and the claims of millions of rather dry germans , does not mean that you are brilliant . but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article that the data were used , and there is no validation of the model at hand . to decide not to challenge these data , folta continues , and the eu should publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data , and the claims of millions of rather dry germans , does not mean that you are brilliant . instead , it means having to fault , say , your program , assumptions , or inputs data – all of which are testable . folta offers a ingenious send-up send-up of ayyadurai ’s job .
yet , starting in the fall of the global financial crisis in the fall of the global financial crisis in the fall of 2010 , eurozone heads of state did not even consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled for a package of national measures to stabilize national banking systems , one by one . the sum of the headline commitment was impressive , accounting for 20 % of gdp . in other words , europeans are facing a profound , collective-action problem . experience has proven that only an acute crisis can induce europe ’s leaders to get involved in concerted action .
the two sides fought back again in 1971 , although kashmir was not a focus . after civil war pitting then-western pakistan against bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan fueled a surge of eastern refugees , india began supporting the rebel groups there . west pakistan was obliged to surrender , and east pakistan became the independent state of bangladesh . a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo prevailed . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan ceded troops to kargil ’s indian-controlled districts .
with the emergence in the 1980 ’s of hiv , which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged , and is the number-one hiv-infected killer . achieving roughly 15 million people worldwide endure the co-infection of hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , a primary causative agent in most tb cases . whereas pandemics appear suddenly , spread quickly , raising vast fears of an impending threat , tb has been spreading slowly but consistently for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . furthermore , tubercle bacillus engages in taal trench warfare , win resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and rule-of-law sensitivity . treating tb requires the bare minimum of three drugs administered over at least six months .
france , in 2005 , rejected the proposed european union constitution , which could have signaled the start of the process of political unification . at the same time , continued progress towards fiscal union would , ironically , make political union increasingly unlikely for a single simple yet important reason : france . indeed , the disadvantages of european countries ’ fiscal union further do not end there . in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution , which might have marked the beginning of the process of political unification . at the same time , the national assembly rejected france ’s proposed european defense treaty in 1954 .
now , central banks must reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility , regardless of whether they are legally mandated to reduce financial vulnerability . this will not be easy , and not least because of another new operational burden laid down by many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies risks of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ autonomy , and policy conflicts , all of which might try to leverage financial intermediaries ’ behavior , by spurring them to assume more risk . the limits of an inflation-targeting regime are now clear . they know that it has a powerful tools at its disposal for such a moment as to reduce borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for a time ) and a strong interest in protecting their reputation .
in contrast to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of very large , productive firms . this should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms are expected to deliver a better product at lower prices , with rigid workers with higher wages . so , why has n’t this happened routinely in developing countries ? judging by standard economic reasoning , this is inefficient in theory . if the small , unproductive firms closed , and the larger , more productive firms hire their workers , total output and well-being would rise .
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , world attention has focused on president jiang zemin ’s hu jintao successor . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most notable point in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation was the appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) , as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , the tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric – a man celebrated for his candor , his candor , his global sophistication and his insistence on execution . even before becoming premier , mr. zhu , as president of the people ’s bank of china , he was known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and the mastermind behind his successful struggle for inflation . given the post ’s manifest prominence in recent years , the choice of mr zhu ’s replacement may be of even more significance than president jiang ’s departure from the center stage .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . but , in part , because several african countries have escaped hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors are focusing on business opportunities there . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as an economic “ powerhouses ” has stems in part from successful demutualizing their stock exchanges . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , and their combined market capitalization has ballooned , from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of world gdp ) in late 2009 , to as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock of stock exchanges . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as an economic “ powerhouses ” has stems in part from successful demutualizing their stock exchanges .
the establishment of national , regional , and global norms is not easy , but nor is it absolutely necessary . in fact , some countries are suffering as skilled workers emigrate overwhelmingly . in short , trained doctors were not supposed to be sent back taxicabs ; they are often the first ones . so , too , • accelerate eligibility for presidency and citizenship . but the failure to devise mechanisms to enable migrants to use their skills creates even greater harm .
unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , comprising about one-quarter of the electorate . its coalition of old french far right and disaffected working-class voters will not come up without announced or defy expectations , as has happened in the us and the uk . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself , wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . fillon , for his part , may probably muster the same level of support , and may even roll back le pen ’s vote from le pen , given that around 8 % of primary voters have described themselves as the national front ’s backers . heading into the election campaign , fillon may run on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during the preceding second-round debates , when he hinted that he favors forming a europe-wide government .
for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope . poland ’s state media ’s narrative portraying its owsiak and civic platform as the guilty parties enduring under adamowicz ’s assassination would merely undermine the pis . polish power , he pursues power , without contemplating the consequences of his actions . more recently , kaczyński has shown himself to impulsiveness . seeming to say , he pursues power without weighing the consequences of his actions .
new york – the last fast-food hamburger you may ate may have cost you next to nothing . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost the worker who gets there ? appalling pay is only a start , but it is still not clear . almost anywhere in the world – including in the united states – costs may be shockingly high . in florida , the tomato pickers earn a mere $ 0.50 for each 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket .
xi has said little about “ china ’s dream since – and that his silencing has led to significant difficulty . ” when xi first unveiled his slogan after being selected over the ccp ’s new general secretary , xi jinping defined it in simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic terms : the “ chinese people dream of living the same good lives as any other people in the world . ” unfortunately , china ’s propagandists , who double as the censors now have the perverse ability to discredit whatever they attempt to label up ran . xi has said that little about china ’s dream since – and that his silencing has led to significant trouble . china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not demonstrating sufficient loyalty and respect for a new party chief , quickly hijacked the slogan ; putin ’s china dream has replaced a “ china model ” in official political branding .
in fact , they can not do so for human genetic experimentation is impossible . instead , a wide variety of genes influence each characteristic . even in animals , whose genes are more readily studied and far better understood , such as drosophila , the tiny fruit fly , is not easily represented by one-to-one correspondence between a gene and a behavioral trait . fruit fly genes are startlingly similar to ours in ours – as they are for the ones of most other beings . for example , even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own .
retirements and fund managers now insist that the societies of which they are investing are operating in ethical , transparent ways that limit reputational risk . environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating and growing rampant , with cash out of opaque sources that flows to cambodia ’s casinos , its banks , and its real-estate market . gone are the days when strong esg performance has been a sound paycheck for investors . pension fiduciary and fund managers now insist that the firms in which they invest are operating in ethical , transparent ways that limit reputational risk . investment decisions by emerging-market funds thus increasingly out of rigorous esg screenings ( screenings , following 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance to go around .
nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through the common army failed in 1954 , emphasizing that economic common ground was the key to european integration . simply put , talk of “ brexit ” exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines – and there is no turning back . whereas the british were particularly open about the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , they did so in other eu members , not less mindful of their domestic interests . in the wake of world war ii , european countries aligned their national interests . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-polish chancellor gordon brown , described brown ’s own “ pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered practical benefits to peace and prosperity for britain .
quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument for holding its own vis-à-vis the united states . from the perspective of fundamental values , there is such a thing as the west . the american establishment has found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europeans have found a new adversary helping it to integrate in the united states . they view even the euro as an instrument against the dollar , and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” and the us dollar is “ weak ” . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who believe in the values of the enlightenment and in the constitution of liberty .
in that case , tusk would most likely go back to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against the pis would be punishment kaczyński ’s deserving . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against the pis would be punishing kaczyński . simply put , he would replace the widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . he is merely kaczyński ’s “ helpful idiot ” ” in an effort to score a political victory over the person , who represents the greatest threat the pis faces . the most saryusz-wolski can realistically hope for is some present government position in poland .
renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . i can not help but recall the situation back then , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . this time , however , it is hard to see a way out that offers a second referendum . now the eu is once again in the irish stew . so the issue lies with iranians .
yet the experiences around the world suggest that this is a high-risk outlook . even were banks healthy , deleveraging processes , and associated losses of wealth meant that , more often than not , economies would still be weak . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises , and they are suffering the most . and a weak economy means , more likely than not , bigger bank losses . the challenges are not limited to the american people ; they are far more difficult to maintain .
they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that take into account the actions and potential contributions of non-state actors . nonetheless , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force for un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made it clear that it does not view itself as a superior of military power . for now , germany ’s main foreign-policy priorities are most likely to remain , both the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which immediate security risks are simply scolded . this would be a wise choice , given that . german policymakers remain convinced that the geopolitical and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity as a decade to come , they will need to find ways to prevent current economic activity from raising the already unsustainable burden of ecological debt . for that to happen , ecological resources must come to be viewed as valuable endowments to manage wisely . by overusing resources , or even failing to manage them carefully , saps the region ’s economic strength . the mediterranean region , ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital , has been one of its greatest assets – the reason more than 200 million tourists flock to the region every year , feeding the region ’s ’s economy . of course , countries with ecological deficits can often fill part of the gap through global trade – provided that they can pay for essential imports .
ms. park once pledged to provide loans to working-class families from elementary school to university , while contending that local universities should be empowered with more autonomy . she favors engagement policies and the six-party talks , so as to resolve nuclear hardship . she once favors a policy of engagement and of the six-party talks so as to resolve nuclear hardship . but she needs to credibly outline a practical strategy for resolving south korea ’s gravest difficulties , including high unemployment , deteriorating educational performance , and north korea ’s extensive nuclear-weapons program . as a first step , park ’s success will depend on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her character along these lines .
up-front gradualism has to be the name of the game . revenues will grow incohesiveness only when the tax base is , an economy – which is set to grow . and that growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital . a fiscal compact like the one agreed recently is helpful to the anchor expectations of future adjustment , but only if the new system is made flexible enough to be politically credible . and adjustment must be wedded to an growth-enhancing strategy .
more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that severe fiscal consolidation will generate enough increases in private-sector confidence that gains in spending by households and firms will more than offset lower spending by governments . second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s “ mutual assessment process , ” has suggested that the united states cut its fiscal deficit to 3 % of gdp more than it had projected , more than $ 400 billion in additional cuts per year . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will discourage america ’s rate of economic growth . the oecd , however , cautions that governments can not consolidate too rapidly in a sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trading partners want the american people to grow and buy more of their exports .
indeed , totalitarian pressure did , form exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , the people for whom the religious faith had bought freedom from mendacity on their own and solitude . nonetheless , it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with their reference , and in the language of humanism on the table . totalitarian pressure did , indeed , form exceptional individuals like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , the people for whom the religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . i admit that i view communism 's heritage with greater skepticism . but it did in the same way for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who was defending their own supreme values with their referendum and in the language of humanism .
likewise , the world bank ’s climate focus seems to be at a risk of what the world ’s poorest citizens want . when the united nations has asked nearly ten million people worldwide to list their own priorities , they have emphasized better education and healthcare , fewer extreme corruption , more job training , and affordable food . under kim , the bank has been eroding the simplistic idea that fossil-fuel reserves are always harmful , coal must be made forbidden , and “ climate aid ” is the solution . the evidence shows clearly that direct policies are a far more powerful bet . in fact , global warming has bounced back last out of 16 issues .
trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to its green climate fund ( and sneers at name for some reason as well ) . the world ’s co2 emissions from energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per person per person ( 32.4 billion tons per person per person in the iea tabulation ) , while america ’s own emissions have been almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons per person ) . trump carries on about the paris agreement ’s supposed bias in favor of india , but does not fail to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth the american level . consider the most recent figures for a year 2014 out of the international energy agency , the 2016 us energy agency . he complains that the american people have already received more than $ 1 billion without ever explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is the kind of $ 3,08 per american contribution .
sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” un secretary general is able to wield the soft power of persuasion , but little hard economic or military power . and when they can not agree on a course of action , there is a tough role for an organization to operate . what hard power the un has had to beg it and borrow from member states . as one wag put it , “ we ” as an attitude that we met and is us ! true , un secretary general ban ki-moon can make speeches , convene meetings , and propose actions , but his role is more secretary than general .
a meeting of presidents is , after all , the final negotiating forum and must lead to a genuine , sustainable achievement . that prospect holds for both great opportunity and serious risks . perhaps for that reason , there has been talk of an encounter in astana between heads of russia and france , america 's secretary of state , and the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . otherwise , it will appear that no amount of negotiations can help set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining core restraint preventing both sides from attempting once again to achieve a military solution . there is every reason that no such meeting took place during the 20 years of conflict .
governments in the americas and europe find themselves in rough , uncharted waters . if the issue were simply a matter of gross violations by the organization of american states ’ democratic charter , incontrovertible , certified oas secretary general luis almagro – solutions , measured in months or years could have been considered . but venezuela is not merely a policy problem ; it is a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions . true , venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally relying on emergency decrees and metalmagro , relying quite well on emergency decrees almagro , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but the effect on his misrule is precisely such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , health-care systems have collapsed , and even violence and contagious diseases are now practically out of control .
similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts on twitter , and his much older rajasthan and its kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot and oommen chandy , have opened facebook accounts largely for business . yet the pace at which the political world indulges in social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . a day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced in late october that it would open a facebook account to receive and respond to questions from the public . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale adoption of twitter – modi ’s ’s ’s ally on netflix – include the country ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized supporters – prominent indian politicians from all parties have leapt in each other . moreover , chief minister of western bengal mamata banerjee has conducted a popular – and widely read web site that traditional media outlets mine daily .
so long as a country remains subordinated to the uncontrolled force of globalization , its future lies in foreign hands . related to this is the fact that present-day economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the adverse impact of those financial speculations boosted by globalization . but , in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , the world ’s poor and developing countries must allow some means to protect their new industries . so the world needs , in its regions , to facilitate integration based on universal economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared legal rules , and much of all a common will be needed to correct the “ rules of the game , ” according to one region ’s whole interests . only such equal cooperation can ensure a solid political basis for bringing integration together .
is it fair to expect that egyptians will continue to pay for their past repression and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his henchmen ? a prudent lender was to regard these facts before making loans . because this money clearly benefited mubarak , but not his people , was not against mubarak , rather than his victims , who are held responsible ? the sort of mubarak running had been evident for many years . when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted with arms paid for with borrowed money .
claims of an alternative strategy must therefore be set at a rather lower level – say , the initial exchange rate that might have been chosen to force east germany into a lower-wage country . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would have foreseen the failure of the experimentation before embarking on it . at the more depreciated conversion rates that the us would simply have produced more rapid real ( inflation-adjusted ) wage rates . even that is a dream since , faced with high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially each year relative to west germany . perhaps those are dreaming vogue in korea as one thinks of possible reunification ; but even there will be a hard way to accomplish when the time one begins .
and , with the corporate sector already overleveraged , broad-based credit expansion beyond its security laws . china ’s leaders should seek to accelerate and build upon these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . public investment is high enough ; expanding it now would shift the mix of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and online platforms facilitate increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing to smaller firms have made it easier to do so . new firms in the service sector alone – 3.6 million from one beginning just last year – are generating incremental employment , thanks partly to a new , streamlined licensing framework .
hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively trying to divide and weaken the eu and nato . if europe faces down aggression from the kremlin , it is vital that poland ’s and hungary abide by these groups ’ fundamental values and principles . but it also needs to be ruled out : the eu itself is developing a more comprehensive mechanism to destabilize the rule of law within the union . simply put , the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market . it would have been unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with its planned leadership summit in warsaw in june , when poland remains in its constitutional crisis , its government disregarding the rule of law and the opinions of a respected international body .
the vast majority of those researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for it to integrate climate-policy debates , also supports much stronger action to reduce emissions . still , it is very likely that the big fossil , from a multinational energy company to coal-dependent regions , will ultimately use debate about geoengineering to fight emissions restrictions . many worry , with good reason , that fossil-fuel interests will take advantage of solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but that poses little reason to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering . but that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering .
national greatness for a world power always arises from its capacity to shape the world . it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago , abandoned its own trojan horse for america – a poisoned gift of unilateralism . to achieve this , america would have to reassert its power in the goal of shaping the new order , much as it did at the near term of world war ii in 1945 . instead , america has succumbed to the temptations of unilateralism . national greatness for a world power always arises from its capacity to shape the world .
the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum company – which will attend the barkindo , along with numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders – represents an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry must get on board . that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to support national agendas for development and diversification . for their part , the industrialized economies must do more to support africa ’s petroleum industries , and to ensure that the adverse effects of rising oil production are mitigated . for their part , the industrialized economies must do more to support africa ’s petroleum industries , and to ensure that the adverse impact of their growing oil production is mitigated .
the economic development in the gaza strip was limited under egyptian rule , and the region suffered from the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the south stream of mandatory palestine , which would later become israel . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees living under difficult conditions in scores of their refugee camps , and had to rely mostly on work within israel . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , with much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor dependent on a un relief works administration that built and maintained local refugee camps . nevertheless , while one-third of the west bank was closed to palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its predominantly rural population was refugees , many of them owned by their land , and a wide variety of israeli jobs were available . the 1967 war put all of gaza ’s mandatory palestinian authority ( just as in sinai and the golan ) under israeli military occupation .
a second draft of history is often written by keynesian people themselves . when the financial crisis erupted , the same thinking could have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , along with tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , chairman of the us federal reserve bank chairman and president of the new york fed chair respectively . all three published protracted memoirs explain why they did and did n’t do what they did and did n’t do – inexorably , with a level of self-justifying in each case . a second draft of history often wrote of keynesian people themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him kindly because “ i suggested writing that history . ” now , a little more than a decade later , the three have co-authored what might have been described as a version 2.1 of that episode .
the goal was not to tackle the problems they have faced directly , but rather to induce new , more efficient actions that would help turn debt into assets and the maximize use of economies ’ capacities . moreover , by pursuing incremental reforms that ease – and even encourage – substitutes for old , inefficient sources of growth with novel , more dynamic ones , they expedited the process . in this sense , east asian economies embraced the process for managing the problem of creative destruction , described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby an economic structure was continually revolutionized from within . for example , as part of china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms in the 1980s were spurred in part by the growth of its nonagricultural sector , a consequence of policies intended to enlisting township and village enterprises ( smes ) . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects , the result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) chronic loss-making and excessive wealth investment , respectively , respectively , by implementing institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby offsetting soes ’ falling returns on capital .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely stirred a glicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recently elected presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . similarly , much of the world protests in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal repression of tibetan culture . this seeming double standard can be explained in part by a sense of guilt : the west has , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s autonomy in an attempt to assuage its own culpability for not stopping slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . this neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove dangerous . instead , taiwan sees no heed , because it is stable and flourishing economically .
a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : reduction of power bestowed in the uk on unelected special counsel or spads , which has become dominant figures across all of the government departments . during my 17-month experience as minister , i have become convinced that the spads ’ over-embrace of power – and haughty access – undermines the uk ’s excellent civil services , together with its elected and nominated ministers . many are now eagerly offering their views about whether the uk should look anew at the norway model ’s us-eu relations model , or with some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the eu ’s single market . whatever brexit option , it has now become apparent that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . may ’s two lead spads , fiona hillary clinton and nick timothy , have taken this threaten to worrying levels .
an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from laboratory to industrial production . while attempting to halt the development of nanomaterial-inspired technology would prove to be just as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , a responsible evolution of such technologies demands vigilance and societal commitment . setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , tentative outcomes suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are less than or comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities . it would be naive to imagine that nanotechnology will evolve without risk to our own health and environment . indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials are currently well known to current risks to human health .
today , nearly 4.5 billion people have access to the internet , and about one in three internet users is under the age of 18 . would-be traffickers need only a laptop , or a smartphone with a high-speed internet connection to go into business . globally , human-trafficking generates average annual profits of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from coerced sexual exploitation . a unregulated online world is thus fertile ground for reaping the enormous profits of child sex trafficking . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening child sex trafficking even more lucrative , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to combat that appalling crime .
it should come as no surprise , then , that the euro has begun to slide against the dollar , contemplating the divergence in economic performance between america and europe . recent us interventions and aid from america and japan have shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets believe in its success . at the same time , we all owe them to it for that reason . the europeans have now experienced a hard but promising start . and it should come as no surprise that markets have tested european political leaders ’ willingness to stay silent where monetary affairs are troubled .
indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle brings into question prevailing economic theories about financial markets . people learned that it pays to buy dips , and was not weaned off habit until it stopped paying . now that internet fever abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but this view holds as much a half-truth as the former notion that the boom would last forever , because the internet economy had shaped new fundamentals . what should this one now become clear is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given .
palo alto – ever since the advent of sixth-century science in the sixth-century science , its mastermind has been that “ a dose makes poison . ” the right dose of aspirin may be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much can be lethal . the principle even applies to foods : large quantities of nutmeg , or licorice , which is notoriously toxic . the right dose of aspirin may be a therapeutic godsend , but it is consuming too many billions of times each day . the principle even applies to foods : large quantities of nutmeg , or licorice are notoriously toxic .
given libya ’s lack of any democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country that has sought to move from a dictatorship to a democracy with weak institutions and a vigorous tribal identity . albania , mongolia , and india have also gone through more complicated trials – and offer some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania does not , and fezzan did not fully join the revolution . the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly quoted : cyrenaica ( the east ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( the west ) .
giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail overly large amounts of stimulus . they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years on average in all of the eurozone countries , financed by very long-term government debt , all of which the ecb is willing to buy . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also highlight a critical question : how will quantitative easing spur an economy ? the bank of england has presented qe as a pure monetary-policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of needed and desirable fiscal consolidation .
and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier . never mind that eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan of the us budget plan are wildly implausible ; for example , those projections matter politically ; indeed , because , without them , the tea party has shown that it is willing to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy and to ensure sharply slower growth . standard - & poor ’s have received some justification for an analysis behind his recent decision to downgrade american government debt ; after all , there was little economic news that could explain the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s ’s ’s assessment of the political situation is on target : by generating dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of government , the tea party has shown that it is willing to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy and to ensure substantially slower growth . confrontations and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics , even as the american government ’s legitimate ability to service its debts has become on track , given the tea party ’s ideological rigidity .
the understanding between xi and trump has reflected a sober acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries face . both seemed to recognize that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable the eu to focus on their respective challenges . on trade , trump and xi had agreed to a 100-day plan for discussions on a reduction in america ’s trade deficit with china . moreover , the us accepted china ’s proposal to revamp a framework for bilateral engagement by producing the us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four subdialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement and cybersecurity , and social and cultural issues . trump , for his part , accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon .
and kuwait is contemplating following in jordan in the footsteps of reintroducing conscription , which is already present in most sunni states ( and iran ) . the uae and qatar have already instituted an compulsory use of military services for adult males . against this backdrop , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by doing so , for example , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though undoubtedly important , should not take priority over a strategy for addressing sectarianism plaguing the sunni one . that strategy needs to center on federalism , one hopes . had federalism taken hold in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift emerged , it would not have ended as a failed state .
the left ’s longing for peace sees itself as naïve , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and in either case , the betrayal of jewish identity ) . the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds into a widespread yearning for jewish roots , its deep-seated fear of arabs , and the uncompromising mistrust of a “ world , ” the so-called international community with which jews hold a centuries-old dispute . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fear and complexes of a wide range of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , overwhelmingly traditionalist israelis and religious settlers . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fear and complexes of wide range of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , predominantly traditionalist israelis and religious settlers . the left has not recognized that israeli elections are not strictly a political matter ; they are an expression of the ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society .
it is not yet clear precisely how automation will affect women ’s jobs . but there can be little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s jobs and income prospects will require upgrading their skills to take advantage of the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . according to mgi ’s research , more than 100 million jobs over the next 10-15 years could be created as health-care and education needs to grow . moreover , among the new job created will come many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the strength of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , benefiting individual women , their communities and societies , and the global economy .
after loyalty , however , the government enacted a more pragmatic policy . russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural region , caucasus and central asia , and brutally repressed any defiance . until the master of vichy imperial rule , sedentary muslim elites were co-opted by the imperial aristocracy , just as in the 20th century absorbed national communist elites in the soviet nomenura . with the few short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial rule did not back up the support of orthodox evangelism . indeed , russia ’s links with the muslim world go back thousands of years and were rooted in a tradition of tolerance .
the absence of any plan for bringing different protest groups together , and hong kong ’s government became a source of growing concern . first , all parties ( including china ’s ’s central government in this case ) had to be recommit to “ one country , two systems ” frameworks . the trigger was a proposed “ extradition law ” that many feared would expand that mainland hong kong ’s reach into hong kong ’s judiciary system . in fact , such a scheme would have to do at least two things . hong kong has had an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) .
to address this distortion head of state , and to provide clarity about its resource allocation , the egf should shift its scarce funds toward two simple , proactive labor-market programs : wage insurance and mobility allowance . wage insurance might offer workers whose pay had been slashed after displacement compensation for up to two months amounting to one-half of the difference between the old and the newly employed . the very simplicity of that scheme would probably ensure high visibility and reasonable account for take-up rates . wage insurance might offer those moving for a new job a lump-sum payment of two months each year amounting to about one-half of the difference between the old and the newcomers . the downside of such a resultant approach is also explicit : the margin of choice for some members of how egf funds should be spent in their country would yield little .
to be sure , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change we should expect to do so . but kharas ’s projection suggests that asia will account for about two-thirds of the world ’s middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not only the west , but even other emerging regions as a whole . in fact , asia ’s share in total gdp was about 28 % ( after including japan ) . that makes the true business opportunity for all .
a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with the financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration – particularly following the laborious effort made to hold together the monetary union , and with it the european dream . such an outcome would be even more disheartening , given the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and after unity marches in france and throughout the continent rekindled a long-stalled sense of european solidarity . nonetheless , the challenge posed by these new parties toward europe could prove to be exceptionally disruptive . populist parties , on both the far right and the far left , have made electoral traction . some , such as france ’s national front , oppose their countries with full membership in the eurozone ; others , like podemos in spain , are not .
european governments are only grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their cherished over-representation of multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines , rather than enhances , the eu ’s total influence by pushing other powers into isolated arrangements . but , while deliberation is gaining ground on how much europe should retreat from its historic domination of the multilateral institutions , there is very little vision beyond that . indeed , when europeans think about reforming global governance , they are limiting themselves to the numbers of seats and voting weights in international bodies . taken together , all of these shortcomings cast serious doubt on the eu ’s claim to be taking the lead in the debate over a fundamentally reshaping of global economic governance . european governments are reiterating the mantra of “ efficient multilateralism , ” ” but they appear to have no comprehensive strategy for translating that can into a coherent policy .
são paulo – a decades-old legal fight between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s is approaching a conclusion . in december , lawyers representing the claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court , with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the country ’s banks . if the court approves the deal , that settlement would have put billions of reals in the pockets of the prsps . if the court approves of its agreement , the settlement would have injected billions of reals into the pockets of the prying savers . but more than a long-awaited payday for a few one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil , a seemingly endless war on hyperinflation .
today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent the most important industries . yet this has not translated into greater control over the finances . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility all pilfered in order to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing . one measure of this underperformance is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less farm-related money than men do . these barriers have had a dramatic impact on social and economic progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive legislation , including talaq-e-e-e-biddat criminalization , muslims ’ practice of “ instant divorce ” as a display of resoluteness .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little noticed : they lower capital costs relative to the cost of labor , causing a relative decline in demand for labor . even if the employment subsidies were offered only for , say , one year , firms would still be tempted to use more workers over this time . one solution is to channel part of the round of liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . thus , over every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us might use $ 60 worth of purchases of assets , and the remainder in order to provide firms with marginal job-creating subsidies , which might be particularly potent in economies with flexible labor markets that enable short-term hiring . this greatly aggravates the unemployment problem ; it certainly is not mitigating it .
the seed treaty is being cut from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , an anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it also mirrors the flagrantly seemingly non-scientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena ( tagena ) protocol on biological safety to cbd . it is over-wrought , perplexing , and convoluted , and complex – in short , inimical to innovations that might have benefited the world ’s poor . and it has much in common with former nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on accountability and redress to the cartagena protocol – yet another antigenetic-engineering outcry that accomplishes accomplishes little except to frighten potential entrepreneurs off of agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that the experiences of failed countries that have implemented the treaty have not been particularly positive , unless they establish high tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations .
when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did in the interwar period – the anti-international right moved toward fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . add to that the “ there is , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s globalization debates , “ a sort of sphere of capitalistically non-organized economies , in which superior culture did not triumph but rather lose in an existential struggle with older culture . ” in the center – beleaguered by anemic global reactions of the left and the far right – the liberal commercial elite saw the products of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial . for much of the post-1945 era , these divisions vanished as they emerged in the interwar period – the anti-international right moved toward fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . instead of there was a triple division , between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists .
the materials contained in that book that i brought from china and choose to make public , consist of hundreds of documents , including the minutes and transcripts of meetings at which some of the people ’s republic ’s most important leaders deliberated on how to manage malign demonstrations ; key speeches between leaders ; classified messages from security agencies ; and dispatches from the police and the military . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is the proverbial family . but the veil that exists over how that omnipotent party makes important decisions is upended somewhat , owing to the volume of unique behind-the-scenes materials surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 is being disclosed this month . taken like the whole , these documents provide a rare glimpse into the modus operandi of china ’s leaders . as both a witness and a participant in the tiananmen events and as someone with access to an historical archive , i feel it is my duty to publish this track record of decisions that lay behind what happened .
poland ’s rock and roll was seen as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . in the 1970s , for example , slovakia , like other communist states , was a dreary , oppressive , joyless localism , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity was stifled under the blanket of enforced conformism . recordings by the rolling stones and other western groups was banned as far back as government . a local rock band named plastic people of the universe , performing in english , was arrested at the end of the 1970s for “ organized disturbance of a tranquility . ” then , rock and roll was seen as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . and yet records were smuggled into slovakia and other eastern european countries , where young rock fans were treasured , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who might later come to power as poland ’s president .
there is , of course , an appealing rationale to say that governments should need to balance their budgets just as the rest of us ; unfortunately , that is less straightforward . after all , governments typically engage in myriad ongoing expenditure obligations tied to vital services such as national defense , infrastructure projects , school education , and health care , not to mention pensioners . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece are facing massive social and economic displacement , as financial markets lose trust and capital inflows abruptly dry up . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underlearn the massive adjustment costs of self-reinforcing “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . no government can merely take away from those responsibilities overnight .
take iraqis , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the mayhem . while this perception may be convinced at first glance , it ultimately prides itself on generalizations that reveal more about its proponents than even true realities on the ground . this “ rise of shi’ites ” and the resulting “ sunni shia division ” assumes that an extended widening chasm in the region is likely to be forged . ironically , this perception is what drives israel some rather than equal partners . president hosni mubarak of egypt argues that shiites are “ invariably loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan coined the axiom about a rising “ shiite crescent . ”
as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still supply 85 % of primary energy by 2040 , down only slightly from more than 90 % today . making matters worse , the consultancy wood mackenzie has found that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . it does not help that financial institutions in china funneled at least $ 1 billion into “ green-” financing to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . companies can not keep producing oil , gas , and internal-combustion engines , while gradually shifting to more cleaner technologies ; they need a pure disruption . making matters worse , the consultancy wood mackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand .
moreover , with american backing , colombia ’s armed forces became stronger still , owing to modernizing military equipment and doctrine , troop increases , and improved training . as a result , armed conflict becomes increasingly costly for insurgents . the farc is unlikely to stage a kind of media spectacle at the meetings in norway and cuba . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without endless discussion of theoretical or doctrinaire issues . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when farc could make impossible demands of the government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing insurgents to maintain their demands realistic .
yes , this is a volatile data stream , because it rises and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama has set the bar high during his two terms . the most positive one to tell of trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promise to undermine trade . the administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those are tiny relative to the economy ’s size . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact because it has trade relationships with china and other major american partners .
malaysia 's former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has made the case that jews rule a world through proxy . but southeast asians are not immune to this type of economic nonsense , either . perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories have been rushed on in the very least . the chinese have picked up a number of state-of-the-art western western ideas from the japanese . all of these books are variants of the protocols of the elders of zion , a russian forgery first published in 1903 , which the japanese arrived after defeating the army 's czar in 1905 .
they oppose anything that smacks of european political integration can do . they will have to answer for a strong european parliament ; they will have to respond to it . those running a vigorous emergency financing mechanism will need to be strongly accountable . it needs not only closer economic ties ; it also has closer political ties . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts because they know that it is they who will carry bailing out .
new york – striving to revitalize the world economy while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis has raised a knotty question : are statistics giving us the right “ signals ” concerning what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on increasing significance : what we measure affects what we do . we may also be confronted with false choices , seeing the trade-offs between output and protecting the environment that do not exist . when we have poor measures , what we are trying to do ( say , a rise in gdp ) may indeed be contributing to a deteriorating standard of living . a better measure of economic performance , on the other hand , might show that the actions taken to improve the environment are good for an economy .
bangkok – a boyfriend recently asked a seemingly imperfectly naïve question : “ what is money ? ” we learn in introductory economics that money is a medium of exchange . we learn in introductory economics that money is the medium of exchange . we learn in introductory economics that money is the medium of exchange . we learn in introductory economics that money is the medium of exchange . how do i know that it ’s worth what one says it ’s worth ?
when it was first created in 1985 , the schengen area included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) . membership has since ballooned to encompass 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with four of those left off ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) – due to joining the eu – plus the four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . yet , at present , even sacred cows are still alive . of course , the idea of abolishing intra-european borders holds great symbolic significance and appeal . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity , and of its nation-states , the drive to preserve order and the rule of law is clear , that the time is now .
he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he is simply seeking the oligarchs to stick to their sphere of activity , leaving politics to him . at the same time , however , the issue will not go away . no doubt , putin is probably acting like a peacemaker . he also realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization .
while the world ’s attention today is fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . in fact , trump seems genuinely convinced that german cars on the streets of new york pose an existential threat to america ’s national security . the danger now is that political insecurity in germany , france , italy , and the uk will create an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to erect more walls ( physically , as metaphorically ) , erecting the ghosts of nationalism . in addition , european ’s external environment has once again become more dangerous . should he wag up one morning and decide that heavy import tariffs will be imposed on european cars , things could get very nasty , very fast .
it can also erode the charter value of institutions . indeed , greater competitive pressure can increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets and make investors more prone to panics . throughout the world , the result will be more incentives to assume risk . a lean bank and limited liability do not have much to lose and will tend to gamble – a trend that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies . there is a trade-off between competition and stability .
vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , and dramatically reduced child deaths and illness linked to measles , diphtheria , and tetanus . yet , sad , a child still dying every 20 seconds from diseases such as pneumonia can be prevented by vaccines . most now live in poor and remote communities , which still lack access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a child born in a low-income country to die before reaching an age of five . fortunately , the world is taking action .
and because a child believes that everyone operates under his specific definitions of the right and wrong , he can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently . to a child ’s mind , it is n’t wrong ; the world is simply wrong . as the pioneering baby psychologist jean piaget showed , children at an early stage of development go the stage of egocentrism : they focus naturally on their own needs and make no sense of regulations at all . a child might snatch another child ’s toy , breaking it down and then denying that happened to have made that happen . and because a child believes that everyone operates under its specific definitions of the right and wrong , he can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently .
its greatest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast between china is just stunning . over the last five years , china has multiplied its highway system five-fold . it makes that difference , all of which sets both economies apart . simply put , what can india be willing to close this gap ? if your products can not move to the global economy , you can not conquer it .
there are two types of populists these days : exploitative and enlightened . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are making willing prey of those who feel ignored . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” ” ” ” and alternate facts ” dominate public debate . but , because these politicians are so appealing to so many , none less than easily swayed voters must scrutinize it . the issue is whether one ’s brand of politics that threatens liberal democracy can also set aside in order to save it .
the latest feature that stands out during this period of historically sluggish productivity growth has been weak demand . in fact , we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical for investment . for example , an mgi survey conducted last year found that , while 47 % of firms increasing their investment budgets do so , due to increased demand or greater expectations . across industries , the slow demand recovery following the financial crisis was key to holding back investment . the crisis compounded uncertainty over the future course of consumer and investment demand .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from the conventional rules of market economics , a foisegy view that rejects both central planning and free markets and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . yet the facts have been hitting hard again . they view economics as an ideological battleground , where all views can be entertained without being confronted with some logic , much less with facts . this view , propagated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to see how markets operate . the french have no interest in sticking to their vision of a “ “ third way , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a crucial role to play in steering markets to defend higher “ ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism .
for example , to ensure that none of those who have worked for 30 or more years will live in an age of poverty , social security needs a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less income growth in benefits over time . with no change in course , programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will be depleted by the 2030s . avoiding that outcome will require us political leaders to constrain the growth of entitlement spending and bolster support for middle-income individuals . while social security and medicare remain essential to ensuring the wellbeing of retirement benefits , their roles must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for starters , to ensure that none of those who have worked for 30 or more will live in old-age poverty , social security needs higher minimum benefits for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less income growth over time .
new york – president george w. bush rightly called pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections a victory for [ its ] people . yet , even as he loomed those words , his administration has been working behind the occasion to subvert pakistan ’s willkommenskultur will by trying to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and to re-create elections that have the greatest loser , president pervez musharraf . millions of pakistanis have delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they have been voting against musharraf and religious extremists , and , in favoring democracy , maintaining the rule of law , and good governance . bush is playing a dangerous game , risking the implosion of pakistan ’s political process to that of its own legacy .
in fact , three of the five hiv-positive people still receive no antiretroviral treatment , most of which are not receiving any treatment . in the us , hiv is an extraordinarily complex virus , so there is an extraordinarily complex virus . it has mutates rapidly inside an individual , as well as among geographic locations , laying latent reservoirs embedded in the cells that enable it to emerge , and replicate months , or even years , at a later date . it has evades the immune system , which is why the body ’s natural ability to fight or at least provide a clear line is limited . moreover , a long-term cure is not the same as a cure , and no public-health tool ( in addition to clean drinking water ) has ever matched the preventive power of a vaccine .
according to this argument , academic researchers should either publish their research openly or leave the university before pursuing commercial interests . likewise , the universities that employ them should have left product development to existing companies . yet it is useful to remember that the university was charged with enforcing subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial ; yet what in the historical past initially looked to many like a conflict of interest often looked later was viewed as confluence of purposes . for example , over the course of the late 19 th century , as us universities began rolling out research at the heart of their academic mission , they were charged to forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . multiple interviewees argued that demands for research would render their teaching commitments impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned by the tension between what it can and is allowed to do . nonetheless , the ecb has been providing massive amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening the strain on government debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has been purchasing governments ’ bonds – worth over € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) – on secondary markets as part of its government-bond market program . the ecb is the only european union institution capable of providing unrestricted funding to governments , but its governing statute prohibits government bailouts . moreover , it has issued loans to the banking sector , recently launched a three-year refinancing operation , which created demand from eurozone banks for € 489 billion .
excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze . america ’s economy was super-charged with over-leveraging ; now comes the painful deleveraging process . the bush administration failed to see the problems coming , denied that they were problems when they arrived , then minimized their significance and , finally , panicked . after all , when banks are unsure of their own balance sheets , they are back to the confidence of others . america would confront these problems , even if it did not simultaneously face a financial crisis .
recognizing these benefits , myanmar has put an education at the heart of its reform agenda . for example , it is currently working to encourage instruction in more local language – over 100 in some cases , in myanmar , in rural areas . vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their educational systems within a generation . one priority , to improve an inclusivity – is already being underway . as former south korean minister andrés manuel lópez obrador has observed during our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time ; but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge-based economy .
in that case , pareto optimality is not social optimal at all . but what if compensation assumes by economists in theory did not happen in practice ? instead , policies that exacerbate competition , whether in trade , labor markets , or in domestic production , may be socially destructive and politically explosive . what if market-fundamentalist politics explicitly forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that could compensate those suffering from free trade and labor-market flexibility ” ? that highlights still another reason for the failure of economic-policy policy since 2007 .
madrid – economic globalization , coupled with a rebalancing of power between the global north and south , has made developing countries , and a growing number of societies within them have been key global economic actors . but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china now flows not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to “ old ” fdi-exporting states . such changes have heightened the complexities of an international investment regime , and should broaden the interests of developing an increasingly effective investment-protection framework . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment has flowed from just a few sources : traditionally affluent european states , north america , and japan . this lays a new rationale for strengthening an international framework to protect foreign investment .
the worry now is that information technology is on the bending of the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will abruptly take off at far more speed than before . at the same time , hockey stick curves often do take place on a nature-based basis . worries about globalization and the computer revolution ultimately boil down to much of the same type , because for the most part , globalization is a result of new information technologies . computers and the internet made information accessible almost costlessly , doing business across cultures and different continents . the resulting changes still will not all be welcome economically .
copenhagen – amid a rising wave of concern over climate change , many countries – including brazil , australia , poland , denmark , and sweden – passed laws in the 2000 outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light light light bulbs . the intention was an understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or just 1 % of our co2 emissions . many contend that the emerging agenda has been driven by knuckle-dragging down climate-change deniers . yet it is ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to tackle global warming . the republican congressional republicans ’ current effort to roll back america ’s efforts to ban incandescent bulbs revived that discussion .
this approach limits gains from trade . for example , the inter-american development bank reports that trade gains from latin american countries of 33 small-scale regional trade deals have been meager . the key to boosting these gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and within markets . this suggests that , for the uk , mega-regional trade deals – which provide multi-market access to multiple markets , but broadly lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – amount to the best way forward . after all , it is this approach , one that would allow uk firms to positioning themselves as part of well-developed , integrated supply chains ; serving far greater market markets than the eu for a bilateral deal to grant them access .
by contrast , the income inequality that is neither too extreme nor that arises from corruption or privileged access to markets is understood and accepted . providing high-quality essential services , like education and health care , is viewed as crucial for opportunity equality and intergenerational mobility . against this backdrop , one can gauge current growth patterns across the global economy and across its different dimensions . for starters , public-sector investment remains well below levels necessary to restore and sustain growth , thanks in part to fiscal constraints in overly indebted countries . growth patterns that are systematically excluding subgroups founder on missing political and social cohesion , and eventually reflect lost support for grand strategy .
for starters , it is important to recognize that the line must become manifestly visible before extremist parties even emerge . one criterion that seems universally accepted is the party ’s use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence – as was implied by golden dawn ’s role in assaults on migrants in athens . thus , the prohibitions criteria should be spelled out in advance . one criterion that seems universally accepted is the use , encouragement , or least condoned , of violence – as was obviously the case with golden dawn ’s role in assaults on migrants in athens . there is less consensus on parties that incite hatred and are committed to destroying core democratic principles – specifically , because many extremist parties in europe go out of their way to stress against democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ the people . ”
a second component of this argument – that the interests of ordinary people were subordinated to those of the elite – needs to be heard , and they responded to it . elected officials clearly need answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . a democracy in which a supermajority feels neglected or exploited is not sustainable . either the government , or the entire system , will be overturned . for them , patriotism means sticking to protecting the national interest and adopting more democratic policies that help the working masses , not jet-setting fat cats .
finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the us dollar was just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 now well below the double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . whereas official us data show overall import prices falling to 11 % in the 12 months through august , this is almost entirely the result of lower energy costs . thus , on an overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to currencies with which it competes . more fundamental , wealth and consumption in china have been closely related to real-estate values , not equity values . even more pertinent , the collapse of the renminbi and other currency in the last year has had very little impact on american import prices , because the chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars and do not adjust when exchange-rate changes .
many developing countries spend a lot of time on steady , no-growth conditions , on balance , and then on a shift to a more positive one . in all of the instances with which i am familiar , effective leadership was the catalyst . in southern europe , for example , the process will last longer , because there are more absent components of recovery in those countries . in all the instances with which i am familiar , effective leadership was the catalyst . so , while we can expect a multi-year process of rebalancing and close the gap between real and potential growth , precisely how long it will take will depend on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment .
like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . yet the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the commercial deficit forecast of more than $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . belarus can not borrow enough to cover this . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will vary before lukashenka will laying the foundation for rapid development as soon as he leaves . finally , the eu should work to france in france .
these countries have extraordinarily diverse economic and social conditions and very different levels of wealth . for example , south koreans now enjoy a standard of living similar to that at the european union , which makes many analysts of constant categorization of south korea as an “ emerging economy ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” all the more baffling . meanwhile , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam grew significantly since 2005 , while mexico ’s gdp grew somewhat disappointing , and egypt ’s even more so . meanwhile , mexico ’s economy and turkey ’s standard of fortune have not come anywhere near that of south korea ; and yet they are vastly wealthier than other n-11 , some remaining among the world ’s poorer countries . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people , and its current nominal gdp is approximately $ 6.5 trillion .
on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians periodically turn a blind eye to the idea of an alliance based on shared values , with china and russia continuing to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . for the first time since world war ii , europe finds itself without a notable ally or a partner . turkey ’s recent incursion by northern syria , owing to a betrayal of the kurds driving the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) , also undercut eu interests . far from an aberration , trump ’s ’s ’s trade wars and betrayal of allies represent the new norm for global order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now coming under threat everywhere , owing to demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open support for authoritarians .
leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the european bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . he is predicting that labor shortages are creating a cap that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % between now and 2030 , and that is just 1.3 % between then and 2050 . comparatively few europeans appear to be competing with the moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria – or any political oppression elsewhere – against humanity . removing some 70 million jobs , and thus taxpayers , would obviously be catastrophic . whether or not public sentiment is changing in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed more slowly .
according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace the us as many as one billion people by 2050 . not since 1951 have international standards for refugee protection received so much international attention . at a recent count , an estimated 258 million migrants globally have been registered , with just 22.5 million registered , such as refugees by the un refugee agency . these numbers will subtract if even the most modest climate-related predictions take place . and yet , no international treaty covers climate-induced migration is the chasm that needs to be addressed now .
lukyanivska ’s imprisonment , kyiv – it has been said , had foxhole atheists not exist . here , after my show trial and four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no legal atheists in prison , either . when , despite unbearable pain , you are being interrogated for not wearing a cell – including in your cell – for a dozen hours devoid of snap , and an authoritarian regime entire system of coercion , including its own media , tries to discredit and destroy you once and for all , praiseworthy , prayer becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one may have . god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend , and only a available family , because – stripped even of accessing a trusted priest – there is no one else in whom to confide one ’s concerns and hope . in this age of love and family , the loneliness of a prison cell is almost unbearable .
and some donors – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank – are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans as official development aid to enable them to meet their oda targets . but education , a critical public good , should not be left behind in pursuit of out-of-school funding . borrowing buy-downs may help to keep the education sector “ “ competitive , ” ” and they could prove to be a mechanism to leverage the extra resources for education , for which capital-strapped countries might be unwilling to borrow otherwise . this reverses the trend over recent decades toward grant-based financing , particularly for basic education . but , beyond reducing aid , donor countries may also be making it harder for borrowing countries to disburse the aid funds that they owe ( this is not limited to education loans ) .
ultimately , enhanced economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in a context of accelerating demographic growth : making it easier to operate on a fairer distribution of the already-burgeoning pie than it does a shrinking one . had increased focus on the country , the most glaring of inequalities in our approach to water , shelter , or job creation , this citizens might not have chosen the impact of violence as an instrument of change . moreover , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs that target those left behind , thereby mitigating the grievances . it is no coincidence that a significant share of kenya ’s continued violence is occurring in the slums of its large cities . let us draw the correct lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best instrument for preventing a long-term conflict .
while we are not certain about these precise effects , many researchers are convinced that total annual precipitation will become ever larger , but that its seasonality and frequency of extremes can also intensify . in fact , water supplies are also strongly variable across regions and within countries , with floods and droughts taking place at irregular times . this would make using the existing supply-based infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines with no major breakthroughs . one new factor influencing water supplies is the increase in global temperature , but it is not the cost of floods and droughts that occur at irregular times . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the subject of socio-economic growth and fall , adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx find that concern about exhausting resources is not new .
qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliations , rather than any notion of merit , then the temptation to strip everybody to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what might be the most humane of outcomes ) may well be a great deal . that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s subsequent security challenges . true , libya has been fortunate in some ways . it appears that the oil sector has been relatively untouched , and therefore should contribute to government revenues relatively soon . but arguably the most important lesson that has been learned in iraq stems from the almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army with no money or pensions .
even aside from insecurity about new property rights , the gains from the privatization process are often uncertain , at best . over the past years of investment in communism , many ( sometimes most ) big firms have been misbegotten from the start . the problem lies in the assumption that most state-owned firms hold the value of their most state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . in formerly communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) big firms were misbegotten from the outset . even under the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , large state ( and a number of private ) firms often needed to break up , restructure , merge , or shut down .
we have electrified more than four million households through a concerted effort over a short period of time – an effort that featured prominently in discussions held by the united nations secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that drew interest from other developing countries ’ governments . yet some 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people throughout the developing world . the new international initiative , called the electrification roadmap , grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon , focused on the importance of energy supplies to achieve the mdgs , just as its initiative “ sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) was officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development , in june 2012 . eskom ’s roles are one of leadership and encouraging . as discussions there have shown , these challenges receive heightened international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental agencies , and development finance institutions .
nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s population could grow from 18 million today to 42 million . high fertility rates in many countries are partly a consequence of low income . high birth rates stymie economic prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stock of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . high birth rates stymie economic prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it all but impossible to accumulate per capita stock of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . high fertility rates in many countries are partly the result of low income growth .
at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa faced plummeting currencies and soaring interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates on record and the strengthening of its currency . all of the ingredients of a catastrophic result have been there , to some extent . fast forward to the current one : the us economy has been growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services . all of the ingredients of a catastrophic result have been there . once north korea of europe under communist dictatorships enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level now exceeds 25 % that of germany .
conversely , america must be prepared to take the lead in international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war . the obama administration should hold firm on this through coming negotiations rounds , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate american policy on darfur in order to ensure that peace efforts receive the same level of attention as the north-south efforts . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – in particular , egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role . peace and security in darfur should be an indispensable benchmark for normalization of afghan-led relations with sudan . what is needed now is political will – and not only in america ’s capacity to sustain this diplomacy .
this renewed drop in debt discipline reflects the socialization of potential insolvency costs among all eurozone countries via the manner in which joint-liability mechanisms are set to establish joint-liability . it is this de facto debt mutualization , which has spurred lenders to accept lower-level interest rates and is merely the lower interest rates that permitted renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from austerity policies . nevertheless , the new debt is anything but a form of holdouts , reducing the pressure to take painful actions that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth . there is nothing surprising about this : once an decision-maker can claim the full credits for a political program ’s benefits and collectivize costs , he begins to pursue the policy sooner , moves more swiftly and much greater than he would if he had faced costs alone . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed in cloaking with the mantle of a new social breakthrough .
in short , the javanese culture is helping indonesia manage the many diverse voices that a new democracy throws . and why , then , has the world taken note ? the story is as reprehensible for a time as indonesia itself . one leader of indonesia , benedict anderson , combining indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese history , is particularly the wayang of a religious tradition . according to alexis erson , “ in contrast to the great religions in the near east … the religiosity of wayang has no prophet ; not the bible ; not the bible ; no redeemer ; the endless variety and the sharp individuality of its dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflect the variegation of human life as it is to feel javanese … ” ” ” ” and “ take away from it . ”
that stance has translated , most clearly , into repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions intended to end a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . next door , russia , too , must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions . it is crucial for its engagement with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting point – a venue for political , economic , and energy cooperation . the eu continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain a rigid aversion of military intervention , and seeks to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base at the syrian city of tartus . next door , russia , too , must react to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions .
cairo – last week ’s visit to egypt by king salman of saudi arabia resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . the move exposed egyptian leadership by the narrative that the country remains a major regional power as the lie . but that lavish assistance came at a time : egypt had to begin withdrawing two of the red sea islands ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 . how , then , did the country achieve that point ? indeed , egypt can not even manage the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists exploiting so far .
new york – in a similar vein , last month ’s #bringbackourgirls campaign started online , following the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book day speech , in which he called for jonathan to “ bring back the pupils . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into an organized action offline , headed by ezekwesili ( who also spoke at the world book a day event ) , and civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . the security challenge nigeria faces dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled a safe-schools initiative . protests spread throughout nigeria , along with countries with large nigerian diaspora populations such as the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . the international media have been paying rapt attention , reporting on the protests , and sit-ins . in fact , the international media have been paying rapt attention , reporting on the protests , and sit-ins .
by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to protect the georgian citizens , russia had lost its claims to legitimacy , and its benefits were able to suffer costs . yet , in early august , russia established a trap in south ossetians on “ self-determination ” ( citing its precedent of western actions in kosovo ) . an immediate cost was poland ’s reversal of its opposition to an american anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to protect the georgian citizens , russia had lost its say in legitimacy and rubbing fear and mistrust in much of the wider world . by doing so , neighbors like ukraine had become ever more wary of these attacks .
as the late historian philip curtin has documented , from the dawn of urban life until the age of millennia ago , business typically involved networks of co-ethnic shopkeepers living among extraterritorial . greeks , phoenicians , the trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , offshore china , and the dutch and british eastern indian companies have organized much of world trade through such networks through such networks . but a diaspora of potential economic significance goes well beyond remittances . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks massive durability and resilience throughout history reflect their ability to enforce contracts over long distances , when the current institutional framework could not perform this credibly . while these alien merchants were sometimes by the same logic from host countries , they were often weak and faced with discrimination .
for example , the impact on harley-davidson is to raise costs by roughly $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . those tariffs raise costs for companies that use the metal , like inputs . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the firm an additional $ 45 million , or move it directly into the world . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company an additional $ 45 million . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten the existence of a company ’s existence , it makes sense that people running that business should respond as they see fit .
for more than two decades – a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation – japan retained its stature as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . at the end of last year , japanese ’s net international assets amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) . but the selection of experts reflected an apparent bias toward the finance ministry . in fact , the ministry used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public debate , compelling scholars , business economists , and a common public to worry more about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effects of a negative demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz are calling “ cognitive capture . ”
our first task is to say how many different cells there is in a complicated organism . in fact , a major risk nowadays is that , with so many genetic descriptions of pouring organisms , we are drowning in a sea of data but move farther away from our understanding of the biological complexity . what we need now are cell maps and cell maps of the manner in which cells speak to one another . our first task is to assert how many different cells there are in a complicated organism . the basic functional units of every complex live organisms , it should be recalled , are cell , not genes .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . new york times – china 's massive protests movement in the arab spring of 1989 , centered on ( but not confined to ) beijing 's tiananmen square – appears to have been the anti-communist revolt that failed . as the brutal crackdown on and following june 3-4 first played out , political freedoms were being won in central europe , first in poland and hungary , and then starting that fall , in eastern germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , perhaps violently and rather than democratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union cracked open by mikhail gorbachev 's reforms , finally imploding .
from here , but the short step to proclaiming that an american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and in any case poised to crash any day now . in today ’s europe , they see little more than hints of an option – firing far less than a half-way – for reform and restructuring , and have been impatient with europe ’s slow-motion progress . true , europe is moving at an agonizingly slow pace , but the assault on the state and its allies in a ossified supply-side side , and on the dinosaurs of industrial stake holders , is speeding up . on the other side of the debate , europeans , desperate reformers see no route to trim , take back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensus-oriented politicians . new fronts in this war are , once again , opening every day .
rather , countries need to take control , by drastically improving efficiency and productivity . they simply need the tools , infrastructure , and competence needed to unblock the continent ’s huge agricultural potential . to be sure , there has been some progress . some african governments , for their part , have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture . at the same time , some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture .
europeans may be more merry , believing that the chinese market will open up not just to european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also to luxury goods and even tourism has demanded of a new and affluent chinese middle class . even earlier this time , england was the economic wunderkind of europe . the most intriguing analogies are germany ’s rise in the nineteenth century , and japan ’s loomed , in the 1920s . such rapid industrial rises are , to be sure , rare , but not unprecedented . everyone feels that a seismic shift is entirely under way .
everyone expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev , would switch roles with putin following the march election . but , in putin ’s sights , this is an unlikely scenario . a once and futures president argues that he has already made russia more powerful , and that as financial insecurity grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by too many . but , in putin ’s sights , that is an unlikely scenario . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence might simply have bought putin some extra time .
over time , this fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because the banks had no need to live with the aftermath . likewise , for those denouncing corporate borrowers and bundling company clos , volume is its own reward , even if that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . covenant-lite issues on the rise , and has now accounts for around 80 % of the world ’s outstanding volume . its share of the weakest links ” – corporates rated b – or lower ( an indicator that has a negative outlook ) – has been growing markedly since 2013-2015 . moreover , not only are the more recent issues emanating from lower-quality sovereigns , covenants for such instruments – clauses that have been designed to ensure compliance with their terms and thereby minimize default risk – have also become lax .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on issues that in recent years , some indian mandarins have preferred to lame-duck figures , for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark severe violence in an area where indian un peacekeepers are already serving . all are matters that call for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched attitudes or reflexive solidarity with “ non-aligned ” countries . also during india ’s first month as an executive member , the future of the un peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal will be addressed . issues such as sanctions on iran , a stop-and-launch middle east peace process , and a world ’s response to a probable change of leadership on north korea will almost certainly emerge on the council ’s agenda as well . all are matters that call for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched attitudes or reflexive solidarity with “ non-aligned ” countries .
one problem orban faces will emerge , not from his or her opponents , but from within his own party ranks . years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies , from young idealists , into practical politicians nearing the middle age . moreover , a large number of these new fidesz mps were formerly members of the other party , collapsed right-wing parties , not just so long ago . that practicality will be sorely tested as long as it is intended to succeed . the fact that fidesz has increased its number of parliamentarians , from 20 in pre-elections to 129 now means that many of its members have never been subject to the whip of the party .
as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen notes , globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become quixotic . as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become graveyard . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism became sources of positive emotions , even though those emotion – nostalgia and the völkisch feeling of belonging – are perpetually shifting sands . if liberalism is to survive as a revamped framework for international relations , its proponents must tap into their own passions . but it is wielding liberalism ’s opponents most effectively . if liberalism is to survive , as a recreated framework for international relations , its proponents must tap into passions .
studying science should begin with physics , not its biology . in studying physics , my students study algebra simultaneously motivating them with a sense of mathematics ’s power . this sequence of study was laid out in 1893 . i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically disastrous , and ignores the twentieth century ’s tremendous progress of science . other industrial peoples can cycle up through segments of their disciplines , missing the essential coherence of a p-c-b. sequence .
until that time , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funding for wars . owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposition to capital ) is declining globally . until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funding for wars . fortunately , their hue and cry went unheeded . yet , in britain in 1842 , income taxes had become a systemic , permanent feature of the economy .
before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) limits . in the united states , the 1980 ’s deficit limits , set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law , were not fulfilled , and , like the sgp ’s , were revised and extended . both governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of our newly agreed fiscal prescriptions ( if they are to be ratified ) . while talk is tough now , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . yet sticking to the euro , forcing all wage adjustments to risk more unrest ; in fact , it might merely set aside the inevitable .
such leveraging of the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( a successor to efsm ) and mtfa . between mtfa , efsm , and payments to non-member countries , the total exposure this year is € 70.5 billion . countries receiving assistance should be given the opportunity to apply to the supposed disbursement of eu funds . following a request by a member state , eu leaders would be authorized to borrow on capital markets under an implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum amount determined by the country ’s size unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds . such leveraging money from the eu would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( a successor to efsm ) and mtfa .
eating whales is not necessary for health or better japanese nutrition . the japanese do have one argument that was not so readily dismissed . it is the tradition to which they would like to continue , probably because some japanese are emotionally tethered to it . indeed , japan ’s desire to continue to kill hume does not provide less stimulus to “ emotion ” than environmentalists oppose it . they argue that western countries object to whaling , because , because it involves them , whales are specific species of animals , because cows are to hindus .
abolition of taxes on realized capital gains increased sales of stock enormously . the bad news is that financial capital has been shifting abroad to fund other overblown conglomerates . germany , the inc. ( re ) , is on its latest legs . the good news is that germany ’s highly leveraged conglomerates are being scaled up to efficient size , and that capital markets have the ability to do their jobs , improve resource allocation . the international money supply has come true , providing companies with urgent need for liquidity , while neglecting traditional ownership networks .
there is a huge difference between a north korea armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and inaccurate missiles , and one with dozens of highly developed weapons , which could then be mounted on precision long-range missile systems capable of reaching america . at that point , any realistic us policy must start with accepting a reality that complete and complete entirely verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect any time soon . after all , north korea could take advantage of the passage of time to increase its arsenal for nuclear weapons and make some improvement on its warheads and delivery systems with no overt test exercises . talks would likely be suspended ; we would be back where we were just two years ago , but with an overlay of recrimination and mistrust . even absent such an evolution , drift is not desirable , at best .
fortunately , bond markets are dead and could take a year to revive them . for russia , august 1998 was marked by the fact that dividing the line was taking place . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy , and it is far more important than ever . a time comes when every disaster has occurred , and all are recognized as well . their absence has made it difficult to make an investment of too large amounts of money available in russian securities .
they have strolling , bussed , traveled in carts , jails , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated in part by social demands – above all to their own benevolence . the contrast between that dynamic space for open protest and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . saudi women are finding themselves living in a petrified scheme for women . nowhere else in the outside world is we seeing modernity experienced as such problems . finally , saudi women are finding themselves living in a petrified system .
in this scenario , one will need to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of the global division of labor . for example , the repeal of the corn laws in the united kingdom in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , and accelerated globalization until after the eruption of world war i. back then , we can identify important swings over the history of capitalism over the past two centuries , either toward or through the market . following wwi , the pendulum is swinging back toward the nation-state . between the two extremes lies the majority of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects such as the eu or the north american free trade agreement . following wwi , the pendulum is swinging back toward the nation-state .
but the “ perfect storm ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , and the ensuing meltdown at the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , has gone well beyond any previously envisaged scenario . japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing a natural disaster . local communities have initiated the immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside of evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools , for example ) , in tandem with the efforts of japan ’s atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop remedial technologies within such zones . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plan for the sort that they faced in contaminated areas , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiencies and poor communication , particularly regarding radiological risk . despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk , limiting potential hazard from consumption to the contaminated whence foodstuffs .
nowadays , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing to a close . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks the experience and leverage in foreign affairs . moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to remove a subdural hema in in her brain . kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks the experience and leverage in foreign affairs . she recently suffered a heavy defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming midterm congressional elections and undermining her authority during her last two years in office .
when decisions about systemically vital national financial institutions are made on the european level in good times , while in bad times national taxpayers elect a tab , the whole eu will lose . in good times , we likely would not be able to say the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to avert another crisis . the eu ’s three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards that may eventually become eu-wide independence if endorsed by the european commission ; they will also be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors . more important , should the council denounces a state of financial emergency – for example , the eu ’s current approach – that eu agencies might exceptionally put forward a position of predominance over national supervisors . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergency ” are precisely the future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers .
over 28 million extraterritorial children grow up in conflict zones , including sites like the afghan-pakistan border region , france in myanmar , and south sudan . but the cause is all too well familiar : a war against education is waged . more than 28 million extraterritorial children grow up in conflict zones , including sites like the afghan-pakistan border , france in myanmar , and south sudan . in total , all of them are increasingly vulnerable to extremist violence ; in china , the number of casualties between the two assaults remains unknown . this week there was two further attacks on schoolchildren both in afghanistan , one at a school of girls where staff bludgeoned and bombs set off ; and another at a neighboring ’ school , where a classroom was being sprayed through bullets .
a comprehensive prevention program that provides free or inexpensive condoms and information of safe sex to the regions worst affected by hiv/aids would cost an estimated $ 27 billion , saving more than $ 28 million lives . this , say , the economists engaged in the copenhagen consensus are making it the single best investment that the world could possibly make . here is one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami compares favorably with that of the number of casualties from hiv/aids . the social benefits would outweigh the costs , up to $ 40 to one . one hopes that this task was made slightly easier by the publication of a book in which copenhagen ’s consensus economists boil over their insights .
china ’s government concerning the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities is as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotalile of the extremely smart catherine mann commenting on “ the co-dependent relationship … between america and its trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite some time , ” because “ an american and other major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” china ’s government concerning the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities is as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to comfortable lifestyles . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions into question .
washington , dc – not long ago , the disconnect between financial and monetary policy was in vogue in so many countries . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , have gone so far as to unbundle these functions , by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and shedding their national central banks from financial supervision issues altogether . in the immediate aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management over time has been forced to reunify . in the immediate aftermath of the global financial crisis , financial supervision and macroeconomic management over the past two decades were viewed as essentially harmless , or as a comparatively meaningless monetary-policy channel . this rapprochement is the implication of the growing recognition that asset-price cycles must account for both macroeconomic management and financial supervision .
much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . and yet this is precisely what a large number of governments are charged with doing : pursue both growth and distributional fairness . seoul – if you chase two rabbits at once – the old saying passes , both is likely to get away with it . that idea matters a lot in the way of trade policy . the two goals , while non-incompatible , are very different from one another , with few policy tools available to simultaneously helping to achieve both .
mexico already has an fta with the eu , with canada negotiating one . meanwhile , the world as a whole countries – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – wonder how ttip would affect each . mexico already has an fta with the eu , with canada negotiating one . the ttip is not just the us and the eu , either . one possibility , suggested by my fellow ex-colleague , the former united states trade representative sucanada , is that a successful ttip would provide a major impetus to rekindle the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks .
true , sovereigns are dumping ever-larger portions of their public-debt burdens onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst , it is not the only threat to the global economy as a whole . unfortunately , germany resists all of these keynesian policy measures , because it is fixated on the credit risk that its taxpayers would be vulnerable to more economic , fiscal , and banking integration . in order to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , there should be a far more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , as well as a debt-mutualization fiscal union ( eurobonds ) . as a result , the probability of a eurozone breakup is rising .
china , of course , argues that its intentions toward india are peaceful . but actions speak louder than words – and the message that china ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be taking the lead in launching its attacks on an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy outright threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the kind of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries next to impossible . indeed , for example , it makes clear that its effort to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its own blue-water navy is aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , a shipping trade route that is perceived as a choke point for the chinese economy .
european opponents of a map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is prepared for nato membership . on the contrary , maps would impose heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . both would have to answer many difficult questions and persuade others that they are able to live up to nato ’s democratic demands before they have been allowed in . but the roadmap process fails to acknowledge an automatic right of nato membership . too many question marks the idea of their country ’s national unity , too many internal conflicts linger , and their records concerning both political and judicial reforms are supposedly dubious .
yet , like donald trump , it was le pen who who was running as “ the vote of the people , ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , was portrayed as a puppet of central bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . so , what do left and the right still entail , if anything at all ? there is little doubt that something shifted over the past decades of the twentieth century is happening until recently . left-wing parties began to lose – in some countries more quickly than others – their base in the industrial working class . redistribution of wealth became gradual and deeper than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities .
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons in the wake of the north korean threat and their diminishing trust in america ’s reliability and its guarantees to protect its nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preemptive war . even if such a war somehow is avoided , a presence on multiple of its nuclear arsenals would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in times of crisis . “ using them or lose them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when capabilities alone are poorly robust enough to absorb their attacks and still be able to mete out a series of devastating retaliation essential to effective deterrence . one risks that north korea would over the next few years come to possess a significant arsenal that would pose a meaningful american threat .
at the 2013 sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama displayed chinese president xi jinping on a evidence that chinese military members have been stealing industrial technologies . the chinese accepted the evidence , agreed that stealing industrial technology is very different from other forms of espionage , saying that china ’s government would not be helping in such theft in the future . the chinese accepted the evidence , agreed that stealing industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage said last year , saying that the chinese government would not assist in such theft in the future . because that is not enough to stop other chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , the new nss rightly stresses that the american government will take additional steps to halt it . given that it is not enough to stop other chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , the new nss rightly stresses that the american government will take additional steps to halt it .
indeed , an overconfidence in assessing its power led to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . many chinese mistakenly concluded that it represented a shift in the balance of global power and a decline in america . nonetheless , such narratives may eventually lead to conflict . after chinese leaders , faced with international criticism and deteriorating relations with the us , japan , india , and other countries , they chose to return to deng an smart-power strategy . in doing so , china miscalculated deviating from smarting strategy of a rising power and violating deng ’s dictum that china should pursue , cautiously , to maintain a low profile .
yet , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . though they were committed to an ambitious reform agenda , argentina ’s economic and financial authorities have made a few avoidable mistake as well . indeed , argentina has slipped back into crisis for the simple reason that not enough has changed since the latest imf debacle . fiscal discipline and structural reforms were unevenly applied , and the central bank has squandered its credibility by early moments . as it stands , a country ’s economic and financial fundamentals have remained vulnerable to internal and external shocks .
experiments with economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it began . as a result , predictions lag behind reality . the trouble lies in the fact that a number of systemically leading indicators were used to measure the economy ’s role in relying on extraterritorial , incomplete , or flawed data . over the course of the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters contributing surveys to professional forecasters predicted a decline in gdp over the remainder months of this year ; in fact , gdp plunged by more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest share drops on record . forecasters , for example , calculate real gdp based on initial monthly estimates of quarterly gdp – an statisticians that often is revised substantially as more data become available .
at issue is the attempt to arrest an epidemic , the bearers of which in 20th century europe was nazism , communism , fascism and today nationalism . nato , for the first time ever , has intervened on another country 's internal matters . fighting in kosovo is the first significant conflict , which often involves no preconditions for strategy , territories , populations , natural resources , or even ideology . this is an important change in nato 's policy that comes down to the very idea of the sovereignty of states , and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations . the west is fighting a war over principles , a war , as president bill clinton put it , " to end a moral tragedy . "
far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now dictating green buildings . policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and to help build industry-wide capacity . buildings last for a few decades are supposed to avoid the need for the world ’s five great power plants over the next ten years . building codes already watch against dangers like fire and earthquakes . there are far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are obligatory for green buildings . buildings last year are supposed to avoid the need for the next five great power plant plants .
as the agreement was intended to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why did there have been so much outrage in the us and the west ? yet the effort to preempt america ’s strategy has clearly failed , as the new un sanctions were enacted earlier this month . rather than attempting to explore the options presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , america was quick to push the un security council to far more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this has forced brazil and turkey , both of which are currently non-permanent un security council members , to vote against un sanctions resolution . i fear this is because the american people have found itself rejecting its primacy in setting global policy on iran .
if that is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios coincide with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid higher ratios , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance . there is also the issue of reverse causality . they have chosen , without explanation , to divide debt-to-gdp ratios into subsequent categories : below 30 % , 30-60 % , or 60-90 % , and more than 90 % . and it turns out that the growth rate is declining in all of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , to only slightly more in the last category . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise for those countries at trouble .
solar and wind combined currently provide around 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that by 2040 , this will reach just 4.1 % . as a result , policies are forcing people and companies to shift to immature technologies , slower growth , and deteriorating energy poverty . many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protest are being driven by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has told us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . vaclav smil , who is bill gates ’ favorite energy expert , argues that “ arguing for a rapid transition to a zero-carbon society is straightforward nonsense , ” ” ” ” ” adding that “ even an immensely accelerated shift toward renewables would not relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to global power anytime soon , certainly not after 2050 . moreover , this is one reason why the world goes well behind in its climate-change transition than most people realize .
remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa , for example . yet the drop in remittances cuts two ways . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into less cash circulating in african countries . a ugandan physician working in norway , for instance , cares little about the cost of local beer sites in kampala . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than the local physician for services , and of course the home in uganda .
the eu ’s ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . but mitigating all risk is impossible . rather , the precautionary principle should be used judiciously and rationally , offsetting potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technologies might offer . in europe , on the other hand , greater weight puts pressure on risk avoidance , undermining private-sector confidence in investing in innovation . this conception of risk underpins economic interactions .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different and perhaps contradictory expectations from the current indirect negotiations that the united states has been pushing both sides to start . for the palestinians , a return to the talks , albeit an indirect one , is focused on just one strategic issue : borders . it is already clear to israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government that the start of two years of indirect talks , without freezing settlement activity in the west bank and jerusalem , is the sort of victory . ramallah – indeed , palestinians and israelis – held different and perhaps contradictory expectations from the current indirect negotiations that the united states had pushed both sides to a good start . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call to the arabs to surrender its blessing to the talks .
unlike moral hazard , markets failed to highlight the circumstances in which government intervention was both socially desirable and deeply defensible . for although the moral-hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment `` thou fails , '' '' '' the crucial feature of globalization hazard is a market failure . that failure in international capital markets in the aftermath of sudden and devastating capital outflows after 1996 is but one such an anecdote . consider the other devastating occurrences that are uninsured ( and are often uninsurable ) in the private sector . in america , say , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger instant federal assistance .
as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates controls european politics . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its own political authority becomes . that leads european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their failed policies once recessionary economic forces strengthened . thus , although european countries remained democratic , eu institutions where sovereignty over crucial decisions was reasserted , have remained democracy-free . handing europe ’s money and politicians to a cartel administration did not just spell the end of european democracy ; they , too , fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance .
tokyo – the scale of the great earthquake and tsunami that hit japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . nearly six months later , total damage remains very difficult to estimate . and now , the country has absorbed another huge blow : another downgrade of its bond ratings . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s currently rate japanese bonds at only its fourth-level high level . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s currently rate japanese bonds at only its fourth-highest levels .
moreover , the iranian regime has forged a network of proxy forces across the region . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shi’a militias , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon , and having thousands of rockets ready to target israel . even if the precision of iranian cruise missiles can not be assured , germany might still evade defensive systems . syria and iraq have become crucial links in the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all the crude bombs launched from gaza .
as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region have been frequently echoed : “ the books are written in egypt , printed in lebanon , to read in iraq . ” iraqis , ravaged by war and now shudder at a moment of violence , are widely known as the most intellectually inclined of arab countries . indeed , rasheed notes that at every american screening of his own film , audiences need to apologize before they started to relate to rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as an agent of his country . “ nobody is asking personally anything ; i ’m here to make clear about some degree of confusion by the middle of film . ” here he hopes that raheed and his colleagues continue to build an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; and here he hopes that the connections between the us and international audiences to rasheed advance from one of expiation to one of engagement with his work .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to build an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign that is often misrepresented as a power grab – since assuming office in march 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend beyond its structural imbalances to two kinds of countercyclical macroeconomic risks . the initial risk stemmed from business cycles in advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , disinflation , and growth rates are rising and falling together . and , as europe ’s recent post-crisis experience showed , pursuing structural reform is politically extremely difficult when vested interests have captured the regulatory system .
in uganda , the freer trade of the last 35 years has proven to lengthen the average lifespan of 2-3 years . what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , ” to quote one academic study . moreover , trade also carries much wider benefits for society . economic globalization has been shown to reduce infant mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to rising incomes and enhanced information . in the united states , trade over the last half-century has dramatically increased .
inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent suggestion to tie eu funding to acceptance of migrants , eu member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . there is little question that it is tough on the eu ’s 27 sovereign countries to act as one . yet , just as tempting as it may be , trying out paper over differences or avoiding dissent – let alone eroding the compact at the heart of the european project – will make matters no easier . the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic , gradual effort to build uniformity . the permanent structured defense cooperation , agreed upon by the european council last december , is a good place to start , with countries increasing , for example , joint strategic planning on the european level .
to be sure , the media are under attack like never before , and not only from fake news and polarized presidents . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in reassuring ways . and yet , fresh glimmers of hope are proliferating . the slaying of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , behind hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked the deadliest day to newspaper journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to a grim global tally . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists have been murdered worldwide during the past 15 years , bringing in only a handful of suspected perpetrators to justice .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for most of the world ’s income , but just 15 % of its gdp . now , billions of people have been lifted out of poverty , and are wealthier , healthier , and more opportunity . future historians may well recall this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . yet not so long ago , almost no one saw it coming . today , billions of people have been lifted out of poverty and been wealthier , healthier , and more opportunity .
polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates just how different poland ’s worldview is today . indeed , it has responded to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , the stalking horse for american or german interests that would ultimately exploit ordinary poles . nurturing suspicions of who had been backing whom helped drive wedges among various groups . in poland in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to control poland . at the same time , poland ’s communist government stressed how incoherent its opposition was , owing to the tension inherent in a marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , christian catholics , and nationalists .
matters are just as bad at sub-national government level , where women account for just 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , over 40 % of which have no female members at all . likewise , it is worrying that some of abe ’s women have chosen for his cabinet and key party posts are the arch-conservatives who advocate that women stay home to take care of children . as leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches to elect more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he might choose to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to be brought in by more women ) . the international-level alliance ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio of female mps .
some scientists suggest that average human lifespan could reach about 90 years , or even more , before mid-century . what good is a longer life , unless we are able to maintain our standard of living ? the fundamental difficulty in planning for enhanced longevity is that we do not know whether it will really happen . living an long time is one of our deepest wishes , and the quality of medical and economic progress offers the hope that this will be fulfilled . but , again , what if our wish is not taken for granted ?
so , in the introduction of a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi will need to be careful not to antagonize his political and business elites , who have long benefitted from his tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to forge a national consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs , he will have to enter across that political divide . and , like a political outsider , he is in his unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , united future , based on his rule of law and vault himself , to the country , great leaders ’ pantheon . to that end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s hindu cross-party grand pact for mexico ” might serve as a useful model for the country . promisingly , jokowi has his party ’s reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics and a talent for communicating with the public ever .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb a legal personality enshrined in an international treaty . currently , the board has no formal status , and only a small , though high-quality , permanent staff , hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . the imf is far too politically a body to act as a systemic-risk watchdog . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee ; and the fsb is given powers to direct alternative standard setters , review regulations by individual countries , and publicizes the results .
dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in support of women . to be sure , a pussy riot could hardly be classified as the musicians . these were more interested in forming visual images . the case , too , attracted the west ’s attention . both feminist chants and crude chords were secondary .
in the early 1990s , desperately short of a hard currency , nigeria ’s negotiated treaties encourage the world ’s oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investments before sharing their profits . now , following firms ’ revelation of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of their oil policies want nigeria to get a bigger slice of the pie . the us petroleum fund ( dpr ) , the department of agriculture ’s department ( dpr ) , has flatly denounced such claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that flout the deadline . now , following companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of their country ’s oil policy want nigeria to get a bigger slice of the pie . moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr ’s director , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , turning the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum company into a powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate market in the gulf of guinea and other emerging-market countries .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , it was initiated by the so-called “ war on terror . ” yet the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole of that ; in many countries , they corroborate the tracking and policing of both domestic media and ordinary citizens . the damage has been particularly marked in russia , where counter-terror prescriptions were often used as a muffle tool to offer independent or alternative viewpoints , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by using security as a pretext to flout russian media laws that explicitly protect journalists from censorship , the authorities had undermined journalism far . freedom of speech and individual privacy , governments claimed , would have had to be curbed for the sake of security .
populist campaigns in major referenda earlier this year have differed in important respects . yet all have been motivated by the desire to scuttle governments and the institutions that they oppose . for example , colombian opponents of the peace agreement appealed to the universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the military and farc , not to the national particularism , as in the united kingdom and the netherlands . yet , as edmund burke famously warned , “ your representative owes you no more than its industry alone , but his judgment and betrays , instead of delivering you , if he sacrifices that to your point of view . ” and all were willing to follow a tradition of dictators and resort to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims .
but now that we are aware of accusations against both the comedian and movie managers , we are forced , in scott ’s view , to reappraise a job in that light . something sinister and immoral may be present in movies that we should take into account . in other words , wrong behavior , or even purported poor behavior , may taint an artistic job because an artist can not be divorced from his own art . this is at least as much interesting a proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified simply because we love the behavior of an artist . to the restive young man , allen , the anxious intellectual who still obtains a girl , was a sort of role model .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , after being jailed for corruption was subsequently jailed . likewise , indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto was forced to resign , after having since drive for extorting money from an mining company subsidiary freeport-mcmoran . and public civil servants , too , are being prosecuted . faced with the threat of threat posed to the threat of threat posed by threat , journalism has played a bigger role . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes has just convicted the country , former energy minister and mineral resources , jerusalem ’s wacik , for four years in prison .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and the sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proven to be difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers are far more likely to continue to increase their countries ’ reliance on funding , thus heightening the risk of disorderly market adjustments than they are to implement difficult structural and fiscal adjustments . for that reason , many countries have endured painful disruptions that aggravated possibly avoidable falls in output , causing unemployment to surge , and , in the worst case , eroded potential growth . a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” entails a combination of inward reform , financing , and judicious use of market-based pricing mechanisms .
stanford – in march , a german tabloid bild published an article , based on a secret document that revealed just how the breakaway regions of eastern ukraine really are treated like part of russia ’s sovereign territory . the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that stressed the frustration facing ukraine ’s government . a paper gathered by the bild is a reported from the october meeting of russia , the eu ’s “ trans-ministerial commission for providing humanitarian aid to affected areas in southeast central donetsk and luhansk regions . ” it describes how the march meeting by attendees focused not only on humanitarian assistance , but rather served as little more than a volume of shadow government . the working groups that collaborated with the russian authorities were established to manage the region ’s financial resources , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade .
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe to recover and prosper , but rather on how it can transform its own relations with europe , there should be little doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current eu partners will bring to that bargaining . there will be varying degrees of politeness of its kind . to be sure , let us be highly clear-cut , about re-negotiating the terms of eu membership , ” a haven of those inclined to leave but want to re-know the people that it really is merely an adjustment of the relationship . when , over the course of “ adjustment , ” ” ” ” ” the way to do what comes next is said , “ well , by pity , but now it seems that adjustment is not enough . but they will not thank us , either ; rather , they will accommodate us .
gender equity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars show the world how to do it . but they need aid , and programs that offer scholarships and aid are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . in fact , the causes of africa ’s stem gender imbalances are often leveled at a leaky pipe : girls begin with interests and aptitude , but drop off the disciplines at different points in their education . the african development bank ’s 2011 report finds that “ to get women into science and technology , ” after all , promises to benefit society just as a whole . it also removes a continent with the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress .
the current system is both risky and inefficient . different monies are not just an annoyance for tourists who arrive home with pockets filled by unspendable foreign coins . global firms waste time and resources on mostly futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only those banks that engage like middlemen ) . the benefit of ridding a world of national currencies would be enormous . and yet farfetched a global currency might sound , recall that before world war i , ditching the gold standard looks equally implausible .
their offer – which would need to go much further than the 2002 arab peace initiative of 2002 , or a portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – could even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of the transition to a final settlement . in the past , transition agreements had amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” what they did not do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counter-suggestion . after all , it would drive economic development far down the road to stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically fostering a peace settlement that has the chance of long-term success . but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could be translated into “ auspicious gradualism ” .
the caning of kartika , by contrast , is no example of political manipulation , and for this reason is perhaps even more worrisome . these are not politicians , but former idealists who are happy that their state ’s islamicizing goals are realized . as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby that presses for greater “ talibanization ” of the earth and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to remain in power . the caning of kartika , by contrast , is no example of political manipulation , and for this reason is perhaps even more worrisome . her sentence was roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that punishment was justly applied and could not be challenged because it had divine sanction .
of course , an american would have to react to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta with the us , in order to maintain its own role in global trade – and within the supply chains that dominate asian economies . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would have to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a us-centered indo-pacific . because japan would not want to decouple itself from japan-us demands for strategic reasons , it might actually accept america as an invitation . it would likely seek expanded and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , a trade agreement that us president barack obama has committed to the tpp last year . specifically , the us would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because the tpp may seek a united states-based economic community rather than a partition between asia and the asia-pacific .
for the boj , the fundamental problem is its profound institutional fear of rocking the boe politically , and thus its inability to play the role of chief economist . as a premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe as a debate about fiscal policy , trade policies , and demographic transitions . but , while tacitly makes many important technical contributions available to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus can not reach forcefully beyond its own jurisdiction . this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a cluster of national states that has yet to decide whether they prefer greater unity or greater decentralization . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-normal influence .
but , with incomes at the top 90 % having stagnated for just over a third of a century ( and declining for a significant share ) , health data simply confirmed that things were not going well for very large swaths of the country . such results foreshadowed a study last year by anne case and angus deaton , showing that life expectancy has been on the decline for large segments of the us population – including america ’s supposedly anglo-saxon rust belt . but , if it seemed clear that there was political consequences , their shape and timing was far less obvious . and while america might have been at the extremes of this trend , things were far better elsewhere elsewhere in the world . why was the backlash in the us now taken just when the economy seemed on the mend , rather than earlier ?
for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its unwillingness to become mired in another asymmetrical war , like that which it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . aside from the annapolis talks , which seem to be nowhere , owing to the parties ’ irreconcilable differences on core issues , all of the other peace-making efforts are more tactical than strategic . it would require bold statesmanship to turn a cease-fire with hamas in the prelude to political talks . in neither of them do the conditions yet exist for the immediate jump from war to peacekeeping , or for the parties themselves would expect this to do so . indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s own right to exist , while hamas would not abandon its identity as a justification movement simply to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal requirements .
specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , an intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro and re-takeover of the deutsche mark and the cfa franc . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation – and perhaps the franc – relative to the euro . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to maintain the euro in their truncated form , or revert to their own national currencies , perhaps pegging them to a revived deutsche mark or the franc . whatever their decision , the price competitiveness of the eurozone ’s weaker economies would improve substantially . to be sure , france and germany would have to implement intermediate arrangements to safeguard their banking systems today .
for such muslim rulers , the intellectuals are the new global terrorists , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism . in his muslim era , iran has boasted of some of the greatest poets , writers , and scientists of the world . none of this would have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers not authorized academic freedom and free exchange of ideas and expression ( something that was sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down on hard on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just about some of those with ideas and wants to exchange them against others . as a result , the islamic revolutionaries of 1979 made a point of preserving zoroastrian fire temples .
to ensure broad membership and transparency throughout europe , as well as within existing structures , the eu leadership group should include a proxy from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish it from existing arrangements . originally the us leadership group could include representatives from core leaders – for example , france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly empowered with each other and linked to its presidents and prime ministers . as a result , the leadership group would represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to solving and addressing core issues , and would give a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve to action . a leadership group , at its first priority , would be to address the current crisis .
finally , there are two important differences between the 1930 ’s and now . the extreme spike in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , and its reversal will be a major driver of recovery . the industrialized world now has a long history of highly dependent upon ( mostly foreign ) oil than it did then . as some confidence returns in the end recapitalized banking system , and in the long run bond yields drop with the decline in inflation , mortgages , and other borrowing rates will crash and the mechanisms of monetary transmission will revive , supporting economic activity , and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at a substantially lower level . a other crucial difference is that we know enough not to repeat eras , especially trade protectionism in 1930s .
the terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger taxing european institutions and straining their social cohesion . but dark clouds have formed on the horizon , reaching a head start . scientists continue to surprise us with astonishing discoveries , and billions of people worldwide have lifted themselves out of poverty . populist movements have surfaced , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise led heldin to “ grim truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that humans believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” to be sure , our expectations will always once again be strained with reality .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important on no less than what it could mean on the ground – one that remains to be seen as eu inspectors beginning to flow into syria , with the hopes that chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to destroy it . rather , an agreement ’s main significance consists in striking the way it has struck at all : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva , that most traditional diplomatic venues , while cutting deals on a intense peer interest issue . now , in the days , weeks , and months ahead , the arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , launch a new era in which an american and russians are working together on other , pressing global issues just as they have . a cooperative us-russia relationship is vital if the international system , now in its near-dysfunctional form , is to work well out in the future . an agreement on syria might accomplish something else : americans might recognize that , amlo , and must keep alive , there are other ways of resolving problems than by dropping bombs .
moreover , financial capital is better situated at the very center of the global system than industrial capital ; once a plant exists , it is difficult . to be sure , multinational corporations enjoy flexibility in transfer pricing , and may exert pressure at a time when they are making new investment decisions , but their flexibility does not compare to the degree that international portfolio investors enjoyed . the benefits of establishing global capitalism are unevenly distributed among the rest of us . there is also an advantage in being at the center of the global economy , rather than at the periphery . capital is in a much better position than labor , because capital is more mobile .
i have long defaulted to watch the five-year forward price of an fundamentals-based approach to thinking about the equilibrium price of oil . for my part , it is uncertain that i would not have been surprised to see this happen . as i explained in june 2015 , brent crude-oil spot prices are less subject to speculative fluctuations , and is therefore a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . the chart i prepared – made before the most recent oil-price acceleration in early november – shows a five-year forward oil-price acceleration following a period of some measure of stability . with spot prices having now moved above the five-year forward price , one might have concluded that a trend change is under way .
the dpj ’s sole rationale for being remains its anti-ldp stance , while the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , with the pnp strongly opposes the koizumi era ’s trailty . the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s government , however , is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . that does not amount to a coherent program of government , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration has quickly exposed the dpj ’s vital hollowness . the dpj was established in 1998 as a “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people abandoning the ldp , including hatoyama himself , as well as a former socialist party boss . this should not have surprised anyone at all .
preparing for an effective national defense is unthinkable , without allowing more or less high levels of involvement in every state ’s institutions . time and again , both must be reminded that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of each individual . as a result , many view defense expenditures as a luxury , if not outright waste of money . in the democratic state , these engage in defensive efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of continuing defense when necessary . the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible enemy at present .
greater investment in soil research also could have spillover benefits for african economies . more investment could allow researchers to discover new microbial strains with unique power to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . more investment could allow researchers to discover new microbial strains with unique power to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to enhance agricultural productivity . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research might spur the formation of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for power for spillover benefits from this type of research .
iran backed the american equation during the first gulf war , it was left out of the madrid peace conference . and , when american forces overran saddam hussein ’s army in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a fine bargain that would have placed all of the contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . the iranians , too , pledged to stop obstructionist ideological diplomacy . iran has also supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . in the persian equation , it was the us , not iran , that conducted rigid ideological diplomacy .
at the same time , america has long pursued us military supremacy . it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) treaty in 2002 . and , more recently , it has embarked on the massive build-up of its conventional forces and the vast modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , the us , russia , china , and the rest of the world will not permit a return to american hegemony . indeed , putin has recently made this clear by unveiling a multitude of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call an pre-emptive deterrence strategy .
yet in copenhagen , the structures established by the lisbon treaty failed . its know-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and fast dwindling ) and comprising largely of post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu has increasingly seen itself as peripheral . its know-just attitude grates almost everywhere . it tends to be perceived globally as supercilized , petulant , and prim .
the same is true of corporate pay and labor practices around the world . when a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart decides not to let it be run for wasteful packages , its purchasing power leads to change in packaging for core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . but larger companies also have larger capacity to be a great power for good , locally and globally . those that operate in an ethical way and seek to improve the lives of everyone who is connected to manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their products will benefit from kudos , more business , or simply go unsingled out as an evil actor . when the world ’s largest firms and most well recognized brands take serious responsibilities as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and make firm commitments to act on fundamental values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind .
there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and 40 international ngos involved in providing aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country . that can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan . simply put , the western countries ’ current attitude is not working . despite the massive increase in “ emergency assistance ” over the past few years , including the one billions authorized by former us president barack obama , those in the us on the ground are largely cutting out the us-led process .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas firms , franco told them , “ our desire to secure energy for all ” may not result in the undesired effect of a spiral of extreme climate change , due to a catastrophic spike in global temperatures , harsher environment , and rising levels of poverty . he noted that it is the oil companies being engaged in “ the continuing search for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement made clear urged to keep most of their fossil-fuel reserves underground . and he reminded executives that “ civilization demands energy , ” but energy usage may not destroy civilization ! indeed , francis has underscored the moral dimension of the problem : the us , china , and its allies must take advantage of their investments in new ways : oil and gas . the same corruption of purpose puts the canadian government in place to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada of its huge renewables .
and a near-identical , invariably lethal disease , kuru , had ravaged aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . kuru was transmitted through cannibalistic rituals that had been commonplace in papua new guinea , until the 1950 ’s . the resulting epizootic ( animal outbreak ) affected more than 280,000 cows . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy cattle produced meat and bone foodstuffs made from infected cattle . the resulting epizootic ( animal outbreak ) has affected more than 280,000 cows .
this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many government-run mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their homes ’ market value . viewed from each angle , extremis of this state of affairs , in which those with access to credit do not need it , and those who can not obtain it are deeply problematic . all of this is slowing social mobility ; tears already-stretched safety nets ; worsens inequality ; and accentuates genuine fears about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . if left unattended , this leads a gradual , and followed by accelerating , renewed deleveraging in the economy system , with the highest first-round costs – longer high unemployment and growth crises – borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer . in the next round , as the system slowly implode , even those with its healthy balance sheets would be impacted , accelerating their disengagement from a deleveraging world economy .
by the early 1990s , it had become increasingly apparent that the armed struggle for power in latin american countries had melted away . in country after country , it was thwarted by the guerillas , pacified , dragged into the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant . everywhere else for whatever reason , misguided strategies , tactical error , erroneous theories , american reactions , etc. , they faced mere defeat , repression , and futility . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere turned out to turn guerilla warfare unjustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , taken away arms was nonsensical . only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile for a brief period of zapatistas observed in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia .
the only political space left for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants . at that time , the working class dependably supported left-wing parties . european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but the less aggressive forms lived elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . the social basis of interwar fascism made it sensible to see it as the right-left party . the social base of interwar fascism made it sense to be seen as the right-left parties .
instead , greece obtained a hastily arranged referendum . it was meant to be organized and conducted with due regard to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information had been relayed on greece ’s greek people . putting this aside , let us suppose that the decision before tsipras was so crucial and complex that it merited the exceptional step of the referendum . in that case , the event was supposed to reflect that complexity . it should have been a very careful and deliberate sounding out .
within other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping interpretations of human rights than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary of bypassing any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . moreover , different communities prioritize human rights at different times over time . as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , female circumcision featured in conflicts between europeans and middle easterners over the rights of centuries . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; but , for others , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ the language of human rights has hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” within the field of female circumcision , there are evident tensions not only between religious freedom and individual physical impersonations , but also between parental rights and community authority , multiculturalism and nationalism , and religious and secular moral perspectives .
new delhi – there is something of an abundance of five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationships in terms of sheela ’s famous pancha : mutual respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-interference in every other ’s internal matter ; mutual non-interference in every other ’s internal matter ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . the updated principles would maintain strategic communication and sound bilateral relations ; harness each other ’s strengths and expand collaboration in infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and sphere of mutual understanding and friendships ; spread coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns and reconciling bilateral disagreements amicably . india would happily embrace each of these principles , like its own , others , as it did for china . now , china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela , with president xi jinping offering a five-point proposal for sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationships in terms of sheela ’s famous pancha : mutual respect for every other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-interference ; mutual non-interference in every other in every other ’s internal matter ; mutual non-interference ; mutual non-interference in every other ’s internal matter ; equality and equality of mutual benefit ; and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence ; and
this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” went antithetical to the practical lessons of china ’s development achievements and to the rest of asia . the result was an economic disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades to come . the bank also pushed for privatization of national health systems , water utilities and road and power grids , grossly under-funded those critical industries . for 25 years , the bank tried to pull governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . the practical development strategy recognizes that public investments – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – are necessary complements to private-sector investment .
in the run-up to next year ’s us presidential election , putin will not be shy about taking advantage of leeway foreign leaders give him it . already , he has made sure that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , awarding the government a pretext to bar him from running behind the ballot . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take advantage of the leeway that foreign leaders give him . putin ’s authority may appear unshakeable ; but in fact , he is being thwarted by national propaganda and fear . when an american betrays his own values in order to avoid challenging russia , he reinforces putin ’s hand enormously .
today , eu political leaders are openly attacking “ burdensome ” green taxes . five years ago , britain violated an international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . with energy-price movements moving center stage , already-tenuous incentives for low-carbon energy investment is likely to be further undermined . recent debates in the uk are describing emerging fault lines . across europe , calls to affordable energy “ energy ” are rapidly becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and rollback of green-energy commitments .
moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity in order to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay , are displacing ordinary chinese – particularly the middle class , which once had high hopes for the reform movement – becoming increasingly disillusioned . indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . a kleptocracy of the ruling government officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen have colonized the chinese state , and it is intent on blocking any reforms that might threaten their privileged status . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state voiced the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reductions negotiations until the two major powers – which currently hold around 95 % of the world ’s stockpile – generate further major cuts . further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before an american presidential election season began . in addition to another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the message on the disarmament front over the past year has surely been grim . negotiations to “ de-alert ” ” ” a $ 2,000 nuclear weapon that remains at an absurdly hazardous , cold war-era launch readiness never really started . the prudent initial move by the american people to amend their nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that nuclear weapons are an “ sole purpose ” – is to react to a nuclear threat , not any other type – has gone nowhere .
in the process , he has transformed a country riven by drug barons and at the verge of becoming a failed state . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popular popularity and a still-rising economy , has delivered , for the first time in more than three decades , normality to colombia ’s towns and , increasingly , peace and the rule of law to much of its great jungle regions . indeed , many farc defectors nowadays prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left polo alternativo alternatidemocratico . in the process , he has transformed a country that has been in the grip of drug barons and onto the verge of becoming a dysfunctional state . indeed , many farc defectors nowadays prefer taking a fight over their cause at the ballot box under the new left polo alternativo . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat extend far beyond colombia .
but the fact remains that a significant share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – will go through their school-age years , without ever setting foot in school . across the global community of 35 conflict zones , an estimated 75 million children are currently being denied both an education and the prospects for a future job . clearly , the share of international aid for education will need to increase . yet , with an estimated $ 40 billion in annual funding gap for primary and secondary education , it is also evident that the us needs a new approach . in addition to mobilizing private sources of finance , the us must make the already available aid ( $ 13 billion this year ) go a long way than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to scale up their own investments in education .
and , indeed , a substantial portion of greece ’s government ’s debt has migrated from banks to robust public institutions , such as the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , these public institutions have already , for the most part , withdrawn from private institutions . but the risks have not been eliminated , either . the margin for error for major banks and other financial institutions seems to be narrow . because they remain deeply capitalized , modest losses from outright default , and indirect losses by the societies with entrepreneurship in greece may jeopardize bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and promoting competition , in conjunction with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers managed to ensure market-driven efficiencies . as a result , these efforts reduced the cost of annual hiv treatment , from over $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 . the resulting economies of scale enabled suppliers to shift from low volume to higher rates , higher-volume solutions to higher-volume , low-margin for-profit models . finally , the aids effort involved expanding as a result of powerful advocacy and collaborations that altered markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . for example , it would have been helpful for programs to track how much high-blood pressure people were diagnosed and placed on treating treatment , what proportion of those on treating blood-curdling achieved blood-curdling checks , and what level of treatment would be required to reduce premature deaths by a desired target .
bilateral agreements are forming the basis of enhanced friendship ties among countries . just before last year ’s trade talks in cancun , america made some concessions , so that it is no longer the single holdout . the global consensus , reflected in the un commission ’s report , calls for more exceptions to make , say , drugs may be made accessible in whatever case where to do so might save a life . at the same time , in its bilateral trade deal , america demands what is becoming known as “ trips plus , ” which would strengthen intellectual-property rights further , ensuring that countries alone have the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergencies . to those confronting the prospect of dying from behind , what matters is access to life-saving medications , not whether what constitutes killing a person is part of an epidemic .
as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether the revival in america was true . if it is , china ’s domestic exports will grow more rapidly . without that exchange-rate adjustment , a more rapid export-led growth rate would expose the chinese economy to the risks of overheating . and , if its exports grow more rapidly , those exports may enable the renminbi to rise . in the meantime , china ’s growth rate will not change dramatically .
broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a wide set of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral part of effective country counsel and program implementation , as well as being vital to the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function under its articles of agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national conflicts that now infiltrates its policy agenda . the situation today is extremely different . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , debates with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on homeland or political work , have been discouraged . specifically , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential , subnational , and private counterparts .
and , thanks to the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from attack , the global business coalition for education ( gpe ) , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . once sluggish to respond , the world is acting now . leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of children from schools a “ trigger for violation ” for naming terrorist organizations in the un secretary-general ’s annual report to the united nations security council . that has meant funding school guardians , fortifications , and surveillance devices to calm parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to ensure that their schools are safe to attend . thirty countries have recently signed up to lucens or safety school guidelines that instruct their military institutions how to keep schools as instruments of war .
as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short to medium term , one would need additional monetary stimulus after another to compensate and boost growth in domestic demand – via delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . this makes it all the more reason for greece to be insolvent and a coercive restructuring of its public-debt sustainability inevitable . it is why spain and ireland are in serious difficulty , and why even italy , which is on a relatively sounder fiscal footing , but running a flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform , still can not be complacent . there is no question that the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape today than the periphery : bond vigilantes might not beat in france , but economic performance has been anemic at best , driven mostly by a mini housing boom-bust boom . yet the two largest policy players in the eurozone – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of that agenda , hoping that a quarter of good gdp data is driving a trend .
europe was thought to be the idea that the french political class was the solution . but europe and the eu could have been more catalysts for public resentment . jospin and chirac have done nothing to articulate a large liberalizing program ( including energy , financial services , and transportation ) , agreed among eu members just two years ago to do so , which implies that the benefits of liberalization are denied france at a time when the wider public perceives the eu as imposing all manner on the french ways of doing business . the sad of le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it did force the mainstream political establishment to heed popular fears and address the country ’s problems . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of the french exceptionalism ( l’exception france ) and initiate serious reforms that engage the french electorate .
a modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security and , indeed , national identity are under threat . people in places like france and poland , who worry about national decline , are looking for a shift of blaming somebody outside the country . an alternative scenario suggests that those fears emanate from the real issue . a modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security , and , indeed , national identity , is under threat . people in places like france and poland , who worry about national decline , are seeking the blame somebody outside the country .
his other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name but a reflection of the practice of naming a person as the father of his own eldest son , is the man of a man . calling for national elections , while politically correct , was political suicide because it lacked any notion of possible outcome , and did a great deal to ensure fatah ’s discipline . in his attempt to defy arafat ’s suffer political corruption and micro-stewardship , abbas has lost whatever chance he must maintain the loyalty of fatah leadership ’s loyalty , newly appointed officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . abbas , mazen , mazen , ran a local deputy advertising agency . an attempt by the primaries to elect fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and the losers ’ refusal to honor outcomes .
new york – for four decades , the ledra street center at the heart of nicosia was the language of a sets of divided cyprus . slowly , unmingled people – not to be mingled in at all – started to renew their ties , rediscovering one another . then , earlier this year , a wall that partitioned capital toward north and south was opened . last week , i visited the ledra street crossing that journey . it was a window onto what the future could bring .
moreover , the formation of a china-japan-south korean fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . yet , if the proposals discussed in beijing of the past month are realized , the ensuing fta might surpass nafta in its level of integration and significance to the global economy . for example , momentum could expand shielded behind asean and stimulate asean , which have bilateral ftas with all three countries to join asean . if this were to happen , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to jump on the bandwagon . such a turn of events would be the equivalent of establishing an east asian free-trade area that the asean +3 envisioned about a decade ago .
compare this with antibiotic treatments for , say , the urogenital infection that lasts several weeks at most . as a result , compliance with the tb drug treatment is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant tb ( mdr ) tb , which can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes any longer . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with a treatment time of roughly two years , using medications that are neither as efficient nor as benign as the canonical drugs – and present costs that rise with a fevered factor of 10 . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli , which lasts several weeks at most . while this additional cost can be borne by the rich world ’s health-care systems , it is excessive for poor countries , implying no or insufficient treatment .
of course , market forces play a role , too , but markets are shaped by politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign-financing scheme and its revolving door between the government and industry , politics is shaped by monetary creation . in a country where money trumps democracy , such legislation has become unpredictably frequent . for example , a bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives over everyone else but does not permit discharge student debt , regardless of how inadequate the education provided , enriches bankers , and impoverishes many at the bottom . to be sure , market forces play a role as well , but markets are shaped by politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign-finance system and its revolving door between government and industry , politics is shaped by monetary rule . still , growing inequality is not inevitable , but it is also huge .
on the other hand , former us secretary of state and democratic hillary clinton and a leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed welfare and medicare reform . a progressive , redistributive agenda could continue to advance , or that of a conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . us senator bernie sanders , a democratic opponent of hillary clinton , is actually proposing to expand programs such as unfunded liabilities . with so few us presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america is facing significant risks . either way , america would face growth-restricting tax hikes and limits on contributions that public investment can compel a country to its future .
this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party under wolfgang schuessel did not produce . confronted with the election outcome of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s liberty party , they have forged a faustian pact with haider . confronted with an election outcome of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s liberty party , austrians created a faustian pact with haider . but , in all of these countries , the political discourse of all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled from their own local party ’s local party , which fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s incumbents . the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in certain scandinavian countries .
a military emergency or an economic downturn would invite additional debt-financed spending , or tax reductions . the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will have risen to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by fiscal reform would have to be raised that to 97 % . it is difficult to believe that a still-low 97 % debt ratio would make it harder to achieve than the debt-to-gdp ratio of 92 % . but even a massive spending program , like the $ 900 billion american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 , would add only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio .
likewise , the african union has reacted swiftly . its peace and security council has met to express the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that is undermining the electoral process . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of the people of côte d’ivoire and appeals to all stakeholders to accept the results declared by the electoral commission . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan were calling on all parties to “ respect and fully realizing the verdict of an ivorian people as proclaimed by an independent electoral commission . ” and us president barack obama himself congratulated ouattara , saying that the world would “ hold those who acted to uphold the democratic process and the will of the electorate accountable for its actions . ”
seoul – have the world entered a new era of mayhem ? indeed , the bitter legacy of invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even after “ red lines ” are crossed , but it is also seemingly unwilling to shoulder any serious burden to maintain its global leadership position . yet , when america is no longer willing to lead , whom should take its place ? american vacillating policies toward syria have certainly hinted so . china ’s leaders have displayed their lack of interest in active global leadership , by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the country ’s international political and economic systems .
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of current light-vehicle fuel demand in the country , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest firms – expects that share to rise to more than 80 % by 2020 . our research shows that industrial policy has been successful when promoting competitive bioethanol industries in brazil . but it would not have worked without the critical role that competition played . a massive stimulus package spurred in the 1970 ’s by the surge in oil prices signaled a completely new industrial technology . brazil was making the best efforts to become energy self-sufficient in a manner analogous to other countries ’ modern efforts .
the ilo contends that children suffer enormously when they are coerced into performing as “ little adults . ” “ the child ’s creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” states one ilo report , “ and his entire mental world is impoverished . ” the sad reality is that families are often the final ones of protest exploitation by their kids . indian fathers continue to confine themselves at times by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistani parents sometimes get their children to pay beguiling beggars .
asia ’s central banks have purchased hundreds of billions of dollars of us securities . japan alone has foreign-exchange reserves of about $ 750 billion , much of it in america ’s treasury bills . but , despite its wealth and its military might , america ’s capacity to project political power – for good or ill – is declining in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . owing to bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures , which have contributed to $ 500 billion a year in budget deficits , america will be forced to raise taxes and limit budget spending , whether or not bush is reelected . the annual us military budget , which has increased by more than $ 150 billion since bush took office , will need to be cut in the coming years in order to get its defense budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad .
to be sure , there have long been policy efforts to undermine or even replace the us dollar as the dominant global currency . so far , although there has been no globally disruptive monetary attacks outside the realm of war of theaters . so far , although there has been no globally disruptive monetary attacks outside the realm of cinematic fantasy . the most alluring alternative alternative appears to have been gold . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad attempted to introduce the “ gold dinar ” ( an answer to an us-based currency system ) .
to be sure , a single short seller is not likely to make ” the asset price ( unless she is george soros , whose famous wager against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire and forced britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but , if a host of speculators decides ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government ’s debt is overpriced , it may be able to force down its price , thereby forcing greece to default on its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . if an attack persists , it is possible that speculators can force a government to default on its debt , unless it can devise some means of financing its borrowing more cheaply . in fact , voilà – indeed , a successful “ short ” trade – a successful “ short ” us trade “ reserve currency . ” my gain for correctly takes this bearish view over the us is thus € 1.65 . my gain for correctly taking up this bearish view is thus standing between 1.65 meters – the € 9.1 m that i have by selling the bonds when i borrowed them on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i have to pay to re-purchase them on june 30 – minus a € 250,000 in interest that i have to pay for a six-month loan .
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in just the last few weeks . clear statements by policymakers , all of the way that xi seems to have indicated that china would not allow any further weakening of the us economy next year , even if that means accepting outsize budget deficits or some easing of bank deleveraging and monetary tightening . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks . clear statements by policymakers , all the way forward for xi , indicated that he would not authorize china to allow any further depreciation of the us economy next year , even if that means accepting outsize budget deficits or easing of bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
during the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to enable the creation of global supply chains . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift ; today , cotton was one of the first industries to witness it . in fact , cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . slaves from africa were used to grow a cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped to english mills . this was the age at which village blacksmith , norlord , lord , and cobbler were one .
i have no idea what “ the progressive direction of advanced culture ” is , but the advanced culture has played none of the part in the ccp-inspired “ smashing poisonous weeds campaign , ” the “ anti-rightist movement , ” or the “ elimination of demons and evil heresy campaign . ” such obscurantism merely creates a culture of stultifying uniformity . was it “ always represented ” always represented “ represented ” by the lone political party ? it need not be “ represented ” to be “ represented ” by the lone political party ? like a grassroots-driven blade beneath a stone , culture knows how and itself is to seek light .
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first things to come . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when signing an anti-gay prison bill enacted in 2014 . other leaders , from gambia president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe of robert mugabe , spoke in the same vein . these official attitudes created significant suffering for africa ’s gay and lesbians . indeed , the cost of homophobia for gays in many african countries appears painfully evident : legal sanctions , societal ostracism , and mob justice .
still , it seems likely that china , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s aiib decisions . china is ’s explanation of its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have insufficient access to capital for infrastructure . perhaps more important , they have scant voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . perhaps more important , they have scant voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . will it turn to the imf , the imf , and china – or will pursue a multilateral agenda when the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the african development bank ( afdb ) ?
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meetings in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , has fueled the controversy by pointing out that , in a recent period of time , governments have tended to underestimate the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . they have typically assumed that , to cut the dollar ’s public spending would reduce gdp by more than 50 cents on the short run ; by blanchard , the true outcome of the current rate has been a decline of between $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a big gap , but also messy finding : how can there be so much uncertainty ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists in fact know a lot about the consequences of fiscal policy , at least far more than they used to know . until the 1980 ’s , they routinely assumed that the so-called “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp to change in government spending – was stable and larger than one .
but , as the public becomes educated about the particular threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , this attitude will become increasingly difficult to maintain . making matters worse , there have been suggestions regarding their real use . for far too long , urban dwellers have been used as pawns on a worldwide nuclear-chessboard , with little concern at the full consequences of playing the game . at the same time , suggestions about their real use have taken place . military planners who regard the use of nuclear weapons have presumably given scant thought to those living in cities on their targets lists .
moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken advantage of growing public frustration with the eu itself . at the same time , the impact of widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” ” with france at the center ( but headed to the south ) , was apparent . together , these groups have managed to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given the fact that most europeans are unconvinced that the worst is over . many europeans oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” ” ” the eu ’s mantra traditionalists in the two major party families , the europeople ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats ( spd ) . and the massive prosperity gap between “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to determine the voting patterns .
not a gold powder , as lesser moguls might offer , may not even have a purest cocaine . they raise their spectacles , filled with a finest scotch , sprinkled with a fine powder . no , this is far rarer and costlier : it is pulverized by pulverized the white rhine . a half-century ago , in africa , white rhinos have ounded for centuries . today , the international protective union estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a very handful in namibia and kenya .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how deeply interdependent our economies have become . if we are to prevent isis from teaching us this lesson a hard way , it must acknowledge that we can not extinguish the fires of fanaticism by forcing it alone . the world needs to unite behind a holistic drive to discredit an ideology that confers on their power by restoring hope and human dignity to those whom it would recruit . in today ’s crisis of right-wing extremism , we must recognize that we are merely as interdependent to our own security , as is evident in our current struggle to defeat isis . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that now assembling and which the uae is actively supporting .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on the `` asymmetry of information . '' for two hundred years , economists used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – that is , to ensure that all of our participants had an equal and transparent knowledge of the relevant factors . for two hundred years , economists used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – i.e. , the size of all participants produced equal and transparent knowledge of the relevant factors . they recognized that information was imperfect , but hoped that a world with moderate imperfections of information was akin to a world with perfect information . we showed that this notion was unfounded : even small imperfections of information might have profound effects on how an economy behaved .
we are used to think of government transferring money from the well off to the poor . it certainly did not service homeowners who are losing their houses , workers who lost their jobs , retirees who saw retirement funds vanish , or taxpayers who bailed out hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . in fact , the world ’s bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) did not drive the well-being of a society ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . under the threat of an entire system of collapse , the safety net – intended to help unfortunate individual people meet life-level exigencies – was generously extended to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan companies . never has so much money been transferred from so many dollars from so many to so few .
importantly , the constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , say , an easily irreversible – non-bloc ” resolution adopted by ukraine ’s parliament in 2010 , to join a military alliance . that approach would be consistent with the principle , emphasized by american president barack obama when announcing in 2014 at the latest round of russia-ukraine sanctions last month , that ukraine must be allowed to “ chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people , divided between inherently antagonistic identity – in order to live together peacefully . a practical result – ukraine would remaining unaligned in both military and security terms – would reflect the will of ukraine ’s people as a whole . of course , ukraine ’s position may change in the future , with its cultural , demographic , and economic shift producing the necessary consensus to abandon neutrality .
in institutional terms , the long-run reform should aim for a shift toward a pension system based on individual savings accounts , as it did in chile , following the current run of pay-as-you-go ( payg ) pension systems . the public should understand the critical difference between a one-time transfer to old workers at the beginning of a market-based reform era , alongside a lengthy state pension policy . under any viable long-term arrangement , a level of benefit relative to wages would need to decline , retirement ages would be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ones mainly ) should be tightened to cover only truly in need . political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will need to shift public attention to the looming fiscal crisis . in institutional terms , long-run reform should aim for a shift toward a pension system based on individual savings accounts , as occurred in chile when opposition to the current state-administered pension systems .
but that may well follow a second stage in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration are beginning to counterbalance the one-off structural effects of new technologies being widely adopted . and , in the third phase , the possible onset of higher inflation may catch policymakers and investors by surprise , producing over-the-counter reactions that turn bad situations worse . yet , one way or another , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their outlook for inflation is subject to a broader range of dynamic possibilities than they have previously contemplated . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty regarding the timing of this scenario . focusing too much on countercyclical , rather than on , underlying it might pose serious risks for future economic well-being and financial stability .
the same goes for the implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement – which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to hold the global center for temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be deployed to break departmental barriers and confronting reasonable challenges . groups would operate under a common mandate spanning all un agencies , and they would be led by un operations directors in each country . the un ’s romanians agendas – which have been promoting peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism – must be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum – rather than remaining rigid , self-contained institutional silos . the fifth step should be to integrate women fully and in accordance with every component of the un agenda , not only in discrete areas pertaining to “ feminine ” issues .
each is on an average of 38 cents a day far below the more extreme poverty line . with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in the latest pew survey of 2011 , india is home to some one of the largest absolute number of the planet ’s poor . the most expensive countries in which to end poverty would be the democratic republic of the congo and nigeria . in the drc , as many as 77 % of the population is exceptionally poor , down a dollar short of the poverty line , on average . for india , the costs adds up to nearly $ 11 billion in exchange-rate costs .
in recent decades , however , macroeconomic policy in much of the developing world has become more pro-cyclical , largely exacerbating volatility in international financial markets and commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to stimulate the short term orientation toward economic policies that limit long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than create markets , and guaranteeing property rights . more fiscal space can be created through improved governance and more strengthening of the tax base , and for the poorest countries , by achieving additional stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . indeed , when oda is not dictated by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it promotes investment in infrastructure and human development .
coca cultivation has been slashed by a quarter over the last five years , and seizures of cocaine have nearly doubled . cocaine used to be an american problem , to the point that the united states has launched a major campaign against vendors and consumers of crack cocaine in its inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the andes . but now the demand for cocaine in much of the rest of the world is steady or falling . coca cultivation has been slashed by just one quarter over five years , and cocaine seizures nearly doubled . the “ white lady ” is seducing a steadily growing number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only worsen the consequences .
berkeley – it has now been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and american democratic institutions are visibly under strain . according to some pessimists , america ’s constitution was not intended to address the challenges of a country so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing ” , ” while congressional trust has fallen below 9 % . yet state and local governments still trust a majority of voters , and hold power under the tenth amendment to america ’s constitution to strengthen their democratic institutions . among congressional republicans , in particular , the “ take-no-prisoners ” critique undermines the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want .
the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to do business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . for example , over a decade germany ’s police force , customs service , and even the bundeswehr ordering itself from uniforms for a state-owned plant in st. petersburg , named after the father of the country ’s red terror and soviet kgb founder , feliks dzherzinsky . similar examples of impervious cynicism abound . by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner concurrently that the eu is trying to insulate him as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked . this is particularly true when there is a chance to be saved or made money .
at the same time , the european central bank has unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation ( ltro ) , which has pulled the european banking system back from the precipice . bond yields in southern european countries were surging , and a pervasive sense of protest and fear cloaked governments in european capitals . finally , in december , decisive action was taken . there would have been a “ fiscal treaty , ” ” ” expanding the stability and growth pact and , most important , undertaking automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members would stick to these rules . but , in december , decisive action was taken .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil novo mercado , the stock exchange of ’s special voluntary listing segment , which provides strong protections for investors in newly listed companies , supports this view . but stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil . their only recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms off from the exchange . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not prosecution to enforce their regulations . the novo mercado has handled this problem by subjecting disputes involving its newly-listed companies to currency arbitration .
new york – january has traditionally been a time for assessing the developments of the preceding year to anticipate what a new one has in store . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . unfortunately , though the us may be at a turning point for the better politically , the data that it has emerged over the past month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s short-term prospects . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
in fact , the proliferation of highly specialized european colleges has failed to promote economic growth or employment . of course , in theory , a simultaneous shift in a few oecd countries toward re-stem-focused secondary and higher education , with large concomitant productivity gains , could impair the competitiveness of an economy that made no such effort possible . but this scenario is highly unlikely , at least for the foreseeable future . and the conversion of comprehensive universities into the specialized institutes of science and technology in the former soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avoid economic disaster in those economies . yet , once again , this scenario is very unlikely , at least in the foreseeable future .
reform does not require a state of emergency , as was often argued . first , all were brought about by a profound crisis of the social-welfare state : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , high budget deficits , high inflation and devaluation . second , a change of government through elections stimulated reforms , giving them a democratic legitimacy . in the absence of a severe crisis , none of these significant reform efforts has been likely to be undertaken . third , there is a risk that reforms will demand a strong leader , not a major one .
nonetheless , rather than deploying their plentiful cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets – which they have been very hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted – many companies have so far preferred ( or had been pressured by activist investors ) to cede it back to shareholders . indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , monetary holdings by the corporate sector in the united states piled a quarter after a quarter , reaching all-time highs – and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates – cash holdings . yet , rather than deploying their plentiful cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets – which they have been very hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted – many companies have so far preferred ( or have been pressured by activist investors ) to cede it back to shareholders . moreover , because companies have made significant improvements to their operating efficiency and lengthened maturities on their debt , they need a lot of less precautionary savings than they have in the past . non-financial firms have attained a mix of resilient and agility that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide that have faced with an adequate legacy of over-leverage so far .
the same is true of turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing prominence in middle east and energy politics , nato membership , the european union ’s bid for membership , and ties to ethnic cousins across central asia . purely from peddling in terms of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose primary responsibility is the danger that the us-led regime of its own evil twin to the north will collapse and inundate it with starving refugees . perhaps the most compelling case of all is that of indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that has mushroomed performer in asia in the face of a global recession . indonesia , too , has shown resilience not only economically , but also national one . from an american perspective , indonesia has become an attractive alternative to russia , which recently vied with venezuela for leadership of “ america in the decline ” cheer section .
a good example is the allegation that “ responsibility to protect ” the principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five may exercise a security council veto , but also because of its intrinsic military strength . but that ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies subsets in among other criteria , testing diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering , and goes to war against any one major powers protecting the suffering minority would undoubtedly trigger a far broader conflagration . no state that aspires to win support or collaboration with others can afford to see itself as comfortable with an unambiguous double standard . the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with the states that place a high emphasis on promoting values are exceedingly vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . and the worst of all remains to be seen as soft on those , like egypt ’s current military rulers , committing massachusetts crimes against their own citizens .
the last thing cambodia needs , too , is its risk to economic reprisal for assisting chinese firms to dodge us tariffs . already , the country ’s worsening record on democracy and human-rights record is threatening its tariff-free access to european union markets , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but an arms ” trade regime . the last thing cambodia needs , too , is to take risks for economic reprisal for assisting chinese firms to dodge us tariffs . yet that appears to be precisely what hun sen ’s administration has been proposing . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-free access to european markets , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but a arms ” trade regime .
if the measures agreed by the leaders assembled at the g-20 in november , they will lift world gdp by just over 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income . yet , over 200 million people remain unemployed , up from just 16 % in 2008 . the global economy risks becoming stuck in a “ new mediocre ” – a protracted period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . in order to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . more than 200 million people still are unemployed for most of their homes .
should it undergo further simultaneous simultaneous transformation and enlargement ? the albright report tries to address these questions in a balanced manner . it re-guarantees policies that capture precisely the relationship between “ out of area operations ” and members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic political and military objectives could be collectively achieved with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms reduction verified by the un nonproliferation and arms-control treaties . at the same time , what sort of relations that nato should have with its partners should have ?
one is north korea , whose recent behavior was smart and delusional . the japanese are afraid of the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence system , but they relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and want to avoid being subject to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) . japan has officially endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world order , but they relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and want their country to avoid being subject to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) . it is a mistake , but to believe that extended deterrence depends on the level of nuclear numbers . the north ’s koreans violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the highest potential leverage , is most concerned about regime collapse in north korea , and thus about the threat of chaos on its borders .
berkeley – back in the late 1990s , in america at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation , that was for repealing the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . the first school of thought , broadly based on the united states ’ republican political party , was that financial regulation was bad , because all regulation was bad . the second , broadly held by the democratic party , was rather more complicated , and was based on four observation : · back in the global economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s industrial core , at least it then had over 60 years because financial disruption had more than a minor effect on overall levels of output and employment . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why did n’t that then ?
it is grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still convinced to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to the liberals , of course , but it should not alienate moderate voters , either because more equality would be good for the economy . and it might even have managed to get some angry , poor trump supporters recognizing that his embrace of pseudo-populism is not intended to help the left-behind the folks of rust belt cities and rural hinterlands . the democrats ’ preferred keynesian message over the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy everywhere loses . it is about devoting even more money to the very few .
similarly , trump thought he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . but the iranians have reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford the full-scale war and the oil-price spike that would result from it . still , with no deal by the year ’s end , a collision becomes most likely . as the clock ticks down , the wrong outcome becomes all the more likely . but neither wants to be a “ chicken , ” because that would undermine their domestic political standing , empowering the other side .
but the scaf now appears to have realized that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to assault by rivals . furthermore , the scaf has carefully weighed down politicians and dismmed egypt ’s relative weakness , curtailed capacity , notorious opportunism , and universal inconsistency . its political polarization , sectarian incidents , a fragile economy , and the absence of any safety have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . in the past two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic communities have signaled a clear change of attitude : “ you need take immunity , guidance , and protection from us – not from you . ” as a result , there is a growing conviction within the scaf that its twin “ minimum ” demands has become both wasteful and insufficient .
paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than america receives from the rest of the world . by the end of the decade , the american people will have to pay an amount equal to more than one-third of the personal-income tax ’s revenues are just intended to pay an interest on the national debt . that demands a weaker dollar , in turn making us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and making foreign goods more expensive for american consumers . meanwhile , foreign investors now hold more than half of that debt . the higher debt-service costs necessitate a higher tax rate , which in turn weakens incentives to reduce economic growth .
indeed , aside from questions of domestic politics and questions of internal liberty , the choice between the leading candidates hinges on questions about whether iran should seek greater international integration . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west is that he will have to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , remain indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , iran , jordan , syria , syria , syria , and palestine . iran is also a key player in the cooling of hotspots in the caucasus and central asia . a policy of opening up a country would thus rapidly put the regime ’s existence at risk . ahmadinejad stands to gain from confrontations and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness .
but where it counts – in terms of overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of considerable disappointment . from 1996 to 30 % of gdp , us exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % ; the gdp share of inward foreign direct investment tripled . if ever there was a country destined to be the poster child for the new orthodoxy in economic development , it was mexico . perhaps the most visible of the gains were on the external front . since 1996 , per capita economic growth had been well below 1.5 % , and the total factor productivity ( while declining ) had stagnated or declined .
after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever larger share of global output ( now about two-thirds ) , and further expansion requires profound changes to existing agreements . a fundamental problem , for example , is the persistent development of the nature of global commerce , with existing agreements having only a limited capability to adapt . and bilateral or regional trade deals can chip away at certain levels of barriers within the existing global system . even if asia had succeeded through relentlessly exporting land , today ’s poorest countries , most notably in africa , may realistically export only about agriculture and textiles .
most of the time , the pain occurs after a simple nerve surveillance binge detect tissue injury through a variety of ways and generate signals that travel to the spinal cord , and from there to the brain . for many years , researchers had thought that these signals had traveled along several well-defined routes to reach a relay station in a brain called a thalamus . from there , researchers believed , signals went upon to the presence of the brain ’s cortex , which managed body consciousness , and was somehow the cortex that the cortex had turned them into an conscious experience . a contemporary non-medical writer described qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness , the capacity to annihilate complex thinking and other feelings , the capacity to eradicate language , and vigorous opposition to objectification in the process . she reminds physicians , for a person suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else is potent negative emotions .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to denounce his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists implemented the abrupt volte-face , and embraced worldwide financial liberalization . the first stop was the european union at the end of the 1980 ’s , where two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the president of the european commission and its assistant , respectively ) – led the way . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon , under michel camdessus , another frenchmen who had served as governor of the bank of france under mitterrand . eventually , the imf joined the bandwagon , another frenchmen who had served as governor of the bank of france under mitterrand . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the key event setting in motion recent developments that would ultimately enshrine the freedom of capital movements as a global norm .
de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric aided , one must say , by fumbling from insurgents – establishing the primacy of the state . the following day , de gaulle ’s face was drawn , but his was resolute and full of energy . the men at “ barricades ” were convinced to be left out of their stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or exiled to spain . the defeat of the military revolt was the first time that the paris republicans ’ authority was asserted over pieds noirs who helped bring down a fourth republic . within 15 minutes of a general face falling from a screen , 40 military units in algeria declared their loyalty .
israel , it seems , is making the same mistake made by others . in fact , has the israelis seriously sought a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , the possible collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of an recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal court for war crimes ? if not , why is such a ham-fisted ? the diplomatic promotion of palestine has offered him a lifeline . repeatedly , it has been shown not to tear down their morale and turn them against their own leader , however terrifying the regime .
fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded rapidly on the ground ; it has , in all cases , led to a diplomatic breakthrough . the un 's growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism , and is helping to reassure the many countries that this constitutes true international efforts , not only america itself . the un 's growing role in international institutions under the un umbrella gives increasing confidence that disputes may be addressed , peacefully , with significant inputs of scientific expertise , as at the un climate change treaty organization . fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded rapidly on the ground ; it has yet to be conducted with a diplomatic breakthrough . while these seem like a grab-bag of accomplishments , they emphasize a unified message : the world community is finding new ways to cooperate even against a background of terrorism and global recession .
except for barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in the global electoral marketplace that is different from that commonly denounced neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there is no longer even a struggle between different projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that may draw up voters ’ emotions . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year looks like a soccer match among the big teams , where supporters of a single candidate and another are essentially distinguished by the colors of its shirts , because the politicians ’ top teams embrace the “ rules of the game ” and even of tactics that are analogous to that . in fact , with the exception of barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in the global electoral marketplace that is different from what is usually called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . here , brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay .
if journalists use their platforms to inform the world of the dangers faced by them and their peers , the world will have to listen . indeed , violence against journalists has historically been an issue left behind by the headlines . because journalists ’ safety affects news organizations ’ employees directly , freelancers , and audiences , such organizations should reporting on the amr topic . yet the most important changes must come from within the media industries themselves . if journalists use their platforms ’ safety to inform the world of the perils they and their interlocutors face , the world will need to continue to listen .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders scored the millennium development goals ( mdg ’s ) of reducing the proportion of the world ’s poor to nearly half of its 1990 level – five years ahead of schedule . yet rising unemployment and falling incomes are underestimating the enduring threat of poverty worldwide . after all , falling poverty is not the unchanging attribute of rigid groups ; it is a condition that is threatening billions of people . despite their weaknesses , income measures are helpful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . but the world bank , at its $ 1.25 / day poverty line ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , used when measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal is not the only relevant threshold .
and an abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private-sector investment spending in check . true , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation across many advanced economies , owing to the adverse supply-side effects of years of under-investment in human and physical capital . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will be implemented too slowly . the outlook for 2014 is thus dampened on longer-term constraints . while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unsolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of government debt ; loss of competitiveness and a slowdown in unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does not help ) ; and ultra-tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging efforts .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain within the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is only about € 23 billion . but these figures need to tap into the eu ’s gloomy global energy picture , something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do . more immediately , to win the gas to markets in europe and elsewhere , a gas liquefaction comprising around € 10 billion needs to be built , and israeli investors have already expressed interest . but realizing that value is a long-term proposition , not a solution . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy wealth , and the funding needed to develop it , dwarfs the country ’s prevailing financial woes .
syriza is hardly alone in greece blaming the eu ’s woes . new democracy and pasok do much the same , invading the eu , “ speculators ” and hedge funds , anyone who might deflect the public ’s attention from their own responsible for the greek crisis . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , please denmark . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obstructive obsession with subordination , rather than their country ’s profligacy . so most tv channels talk about the bailout deal just when tsipras does : just as the proximate cause of austerity is the outcome of neoliberal dogma .
israel ’s ’s ’s shift in policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has made it a powerful message to the american people that they should not miss the lebanese train in general . but america ’s diminished leverage can not match that of the region ’s own “ axis of evil . ” lebanon has been too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , none of which wants to see their local clients ease the extra-independent military force that it has built with iranian and syrian aid . nor is hezbollah keen to see an end to israel ’s lebanese troop occupation on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable independent military force it has built with iranian and syrian aid . after all , it was minuscule qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlement , egypt that mediated a gaza cease-fire , and turkey that has been facilitating israeli-syrian talks .
but , with clarida ’s input , the fed will be inclined to focus more on actual inflationary trends , rather than on its official unemployment rate and its implications under traditional patterns . furthermore , while the fed ’s own members have tended to believe that america ’s economy ’s rate of potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , appears open to the idea that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with a next wave of technological innovation , will allow for somewhat stronger , non-inflationary , us growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should begin making up for below-target inflation during recessions , and slow recoveries by permitting above-target inflation during expansionary times . and , though the review remains in its early stages , the fed has already appears to have embraced the idea that us inflation should be allowed to surpass 2 % immediately without provoking monetary tightening . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed might be able to remain in pause in 2019 .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the cost of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool off a crop ’s reactors ; protracted loss of economic output within the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and cleaning up costs ; and the costs of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . on the upper hand , there is the possibility of health-care costs resulting from exposure to radioactivity . moreover , the purported “ nuclear cost savings ” that is implied by nuclear power never included a price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , decommissioning of aging facilities , and emergency cleanup and remediation of impacted communities when disaster strikes – all , again , at taxpayers ’ expense . all of these hidden costs make the price of nuclear energy higher than that of shifting to renewable ones and improving energy efficiency . it is governments – and hence taxpayers and bondholders – that finance nuclear plants . on the top of this is the possibility of health-care costs resulting from exposure to radioactivity .
otherwise , they would stiffen debate , too . by doing so , however , clear rules of engagement are necessary . the most important principle to enter into question is the distinction between being hearing someone and honoring someone . it would run counter to what universities are standing for . as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfires , by giving trump camp another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ”
new york – like an even-on death row , europe has received another last-minute stay of execution . at the end of this month , there was good news : european leaders finally understood that the bootstrap operation , by which europe lends money to greek banks to rescue sovereigns , and the distressed sovereigns to rescue their banks , would n’t work . likewise , they are now recognizing that bailout loans that provide seniority to new lender over other lenders ’ positions , aggravating private donors ’ positions , which will simply demand even higher interest rates . indeed , it will survive a bit longer , at least until now . markets are celebrating , as they did after each of the four prior “ europeanization ” of europe ’s banking crisis ” summits – until they come to understand that fundamental problems have yet to be solved .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to purchase , if necessary , unrestricted sums of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , provided that affected countries subscribe to the rules of the european union ’s rescue fund , the european stability mechanism . thousands of germans have appealed to the eu ’s constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union , which bars monetary financing of eurozone governments , and that it imposes substantial risks on german citizens as taxpayers . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that defends the bundesbank and the german parliament , as is likely to do , the court demanded the european court of justice ’s ruling to its position . now , the court has declared that it has endorses claimants ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary law .
for example , some of the gains from the government ’s investments at tesla might have been recouped through shares ( or royalties ) in the us , and were used to take out losses from its investments in solyndra . when investing is in upstream fundamental research , defusing effects across industries and sectors sometimes yields a social reward . but other cases might require the creation of alternatives . to build support for public investment in higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should take an even more direct hit , by rewarding profits in a public innovation fund for financing the next wave of technologies . and the tax on capital gains has dropped by more than 50 % since the 1980s .
still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than its monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . unless the ecb ’s next leaders meet them , europe will be at risk alone . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership team in their own , and the european parliament will have seated a new generation of politicians who did not engage in previous decade ’s compromises and reforms . on the contrary , many will be elected in a political environment of rage , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . clearly , with interest rates at their zero lower bound , more monetarist fiscal-policy coordination is needed .
at the time , most of the social media-enabled popular uprising failed for want of effective leadership , and traditional political and military organizations retained the top . indeed , these regimes began to wield social media coverage in an end . we have all been hearing accusations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , switzerland , and , most recently , in the united states . facebook has estimated that russian content on its network , including posts and paid ads , has reached 126 million americans , some 40 % of native-born citizens . at the same time , we should recall earlier moments of russian descent into fomenting “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad had relied on khamenei ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s financial and political backing to win the presidency . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful of that choice . ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , attempts to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and undermines key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei , too , regrets volunteers of the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november . but he is not immune to miscalculation , with executive authority .
but it is far from clear whether china ’s top leaders will recognize this and act in their countries ’ own long-term self interest . the bottom line is not the unified out of china . and it is not just the developing and emerging-market countries that must re-think their approach to the global community . the american people must , just as easily , do . similar questions apply to india and brazil .
some people are working harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or are simply lucky enough to be at best in the right place at the right time . but on the level of individual societies , my sense is that inequality does loom like a severe political-economic problem . nor should we worry a great deal that some people are richer than others . the problems that are likely to be addressed include poverty and social insurance somehow — the provision of safety net — rather than inequality . yet i do not see what alternative political-economic arrangements could force individuals to have relative wealth given way to their relative moral or other merit .
more broadly , her point is that we need the fsoc to do its job – to look for and evaluate all kinds of potential systemic risks . here , too , there is some friction among various regulators in the us , and there is surely a need for more coordination across national borders – including with respect to europe . not everyone at the sec is as rational as stein . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies , working through members of congress , are pushing back hard against both the fsoc and its mandate . that needs to be done as a technical matter , rather than as part of the political process .
iohannis may have also benefited , to some extent , from an association in the electorate ’s mind with german hohenzollern kings , who ruled romania with wisely and with dedication to more than 80 years . the final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation in whom connections across the western world imbued with an eagerness to see true democratic breakthroughs in romania . when the results were announced , their euphoria was overwhelming . in bucharest ’s university square , the celebration recalled the energies of 1989 ; it was the sound of an awakened electorate , conscious its past flaws and prepared for a fresh start . and , indeed , upon learning from his victory , iohannis promptly paid a visit to moscow by deputy crown king michael i ( a hohenzollern prince , until emulating the title in 2011 ) .
unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will not be able to generate sufficient highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest . while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate abilities , the country ’s higher-education system does an abysmal job that stretches their talents . education in the social sciences and the humanities is especially tenuous , owing to a lack of investment in these disciplines and overt policy checks on curricula . for most , the curriculum is vastly obsolete , and skewed toward rote learning of theory to the detriment of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills . as a result , a chinese graduate from business colleges and universities has learning relatively little in the outside world in fields like anthropocene , sociology , international relations , comparative , and history .
such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . at the same time , japan has committed to further liberalization of its markets within the framework of the wto . as a result , these reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . last but not least , global economic conditions will compel an even greater restructuring upon japan . in fact , imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
i believe that the west can learn a great deal about what to do by studying policies pursued in the world ’s only two mid-level moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each had successfully dodge becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy , given its proximity to violence-prone algeria . nevertheless , it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it fails to deliver an ideology compelling enough to be able to compete with a kind of fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in the moslem world . both countries combined substantial increases of secular education with rapid job creation in labor-intensive occupations ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development . egalitarian evolution of this sort is the only viable answer to the problems of the moslem world master .
new haven – yet another in a long string of negative inflation surprises is in order . in the united states , the so-called keynesian cpi ( consumer-price index ) – which excludes food and energy – headed down just when it was meant to fall . for an american economy widely presumed to be nearing a tipping ground of full employment , this is what emerges as a rude awakening – specifically to the us federal reserve , walking all the stops to get inflation back down to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues to unfold in japan . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was basically unchanged , hold at just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level .
nonetheless , following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe : the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions switched . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of indian democratic dialogues to the norwegian semi-buddhist kaiser ashoka . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp ; today , india has the accounted for nearly 20 % of global gdp . at the same time , he contrasts the religious tolerance preached , and has practiced muslim emperor akbar hashemi with the dustbin of 1590 , which rose to a duplicity heresy in europe at around the same time . our assumptions about the relative prosperity of asia and the west should be redeemed here , too .
japan had no corporate law so long as its complex business finance started to develop in the late nineteenth century . core protective regulatory institutions for outside finance , the dodd-frank laws of federal securities , did not fall into place until the 1930s – a decade after american financial markets were growing to finance america ’s economic rise . so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational had to take place before financial markets started operating . yet that sequence is just the opposite of what one might have expected : only after the emergence of financial markets did those with stakes in them work by press for better legislation to protect investors . so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational have had to play before financial markets started operating .
to be sure , insufficient spending was never an issue , either . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged just 3.8 % , the second-fastest rate in western europe , behind only ireland . in spain and ireland , though , the gap was reflected in a construction boom ; european accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages . in greece , on the other hand , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption rather than investment . but , by 2007 , greece had more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , europe ’s largest such gap – more than twice that of spain and 55 % higher than ireland ’s .
true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by the erosion of the discretion of elected representatives . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making to quasi-independent bodies when issues are technical , and do not generate distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are susceptible to myopia , with the heavy discounting of future costs . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this point . it may be up to elected politicians to spell an inflation target , but the means they have been deployed to achieve that target are left to technocrats in the central bank . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians , and they must provide accounting if they miss the targets .
first , it is important to realize that a strong , overly volatile currency is not simply the central bank ’s problem to fix . that means a large degree of accountability for the fiscal authorities : target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the room needed for real exchange-rate depreciation . while the central bank bears a good part of the responsibility , it needs support from other segments of the government , most notably from the finance ministry . retaining a competitive currency requires increasing domestic savings relative to investment or reducing national expenditure relative to income . alternatively , the gains from competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation .
there is something about the narrative – the sex symbol has sacrificing its fetishized breasts for her children ’s sake , with her husband residing in her party ’s side , that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . jolie has refused to treat the mastectomy as terrifying or tragic , or as having made her “ less ” woman ” to be ” in any way . the real significance of jolie ’s story , however , is its context : the gender wave ; in very different settings around the world ; insisting on narrating narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies ; events that , such as breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame ; silence , fear , or blame . as enthusiastically taken as the global mass media have received her choices , it is nonetheless exceedingly difficult in the west for a woman to be depicted as maternal – let alone physically “ impaired ” or “ impaired ” – and , in turn , as a fantasy , sex object . one may be reasonably certain , but that jolie ’s decisions will alter the roles that are available to her own as an actress . jolie ’s refused to treat the mastectomy or tragic , or to what has made her “ less ” to a woman ” in every sense .
some depreciation may manage most deficit countries to manage course ; but there could be a vicious cycle if the domestic currency loses too much value too rapidly . private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , with the resulting strain on government finances attracting austerity , thereby constraining consumer demand – and causing additional damage to firms ’ ’ ’ balance sheets . in order to avert such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate would have to be managed – and in a way that depends on a country ’s specific circumstances . large net central-bank reserves can help ease this process . it is this danger that lays the groundwork for practical and political constraints to more flexible exchange rates .
entertainment companies , or the mass media , are highly sensitive to public opinion , and little can be done to it . but the cancellation of barr ’s show was obviously not a legitimate decision . free speech is more strictly the preserve of the law in the us than almost any other country in the world . the limits to free speech are not simply legal , but rather , it is likely to be fought over by politicians . people tend to get fired upon , for commercial reasons , when something they said was deemed insulting to a large number of people .
new york – in late 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced the arab league for human development , writing on behalf of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions on key measures , including individual freedom and female empowering women , as well as its economic and social development . disturbing trends , such as the country ’s demographic youth “ bulge ” combined with an high youth unemployment rate -- reaching nearly 40 % in some localities -- highlight potentially explosive social conditions . in fact , not one has a muslim majority ; at the same time , it has a muslim majority , a ratio of some continues to increase . this phenomenon has been seen , to some extent , within the muslim world .
institutionally , this division of labor was manifested in nato and the eu . but , given the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their actual influence . then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . on its economic and technological fronts , however , europeans regained their sovereignty . in terms of security , europeans remained dependent on the us .
for the occasion , tudor published a yarmulke , speaking of his " philo-semitism for more than two hours . " but tudor did not stop with his prolix apology . he announced that he had been hired by eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his own presidential campaign . for the occasion , tudor wore yarmulke , speaking of his " philo-semitism " for more than two hours . " the jews " were by no means his enemies any more , he said ; they even worked for him .
as a result , in many african countries , the free press , repressive , and shady business deals are being compromised . but those with power know how to fight back – and withdraw their punches . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is being undermined , abuse of power , and shady business deals . in kenya , for example , a leader of a local newspaper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the arts and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payments from the national youth service . further investigations of the nys exposed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a freer economy . but , because the government determines how to offload its massive stock holdings in an orderly manner , it needs to ensure that such efforts finance equity , not leverage , thereby enhancing market equilibrium and resilience . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( not the nation-state ) that will identify and encourage unicorns . nonetheless , with china already beginning to build a more innovative manufacturing and internet-driven retail sector , the state may still have a role to play in fostering innovation . china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , and the lesson of its current stress test should be viewing as part of that process to drive the next stage of economic reform .
it is vital that the opposition can air its message freely and target prospective voters – a point not lost on the chávez regime as it seeks to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to come out freely to voters . its recent attack on globovision , venezuela , ’s only surviving an independent station , stands out in just this regard . its abrupt departure due to illness may create a political vacuum that could become conducive to a power grab from one form or another , like a military coup . strict adherence to constitutional provisions in any such eventuality is imperative . here , the absence of a free and fair election for free and fair elections is particularly alarming .
the shopped-out traders did not win every battle , of course , or more . in just over the 1990s , private investors looked at big , lumbering central banks like cash cows , long for money , and a short step in terms of financial acumen . in july , george soros once committed one billion dollars from the bank of england in just one hour . its fundamental strategy was the standard one : bet on any central bank that supports an inconsistent macroeconomic policy . in fact , what a difference a decade made .
in the first two quarters of this year , american gdp has barely surpassed the level it attained at the end of last year , and much of the surge has been driven by the quantity of goods produced but not yet sold . yet , contrary to expectations , household consumption growth has remained lackluster , with companies disaggregated through investment . america ’s consumer consumers remain scarred by this crisis . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , the sense of excitement about the future is missing , notwithstanding all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now pervades them . the prevailing explanation – a brutally chilling winter that passes so thinly veiled that everyone should be seeing through .
regulatory reform is also needed to strengthen support startup companies – an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflected in the difficulty that such firms face when acquiring venture capital . nowhere is the need to overcome funding bottlenecks all the more evident than in germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) transition . to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , bringing together heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . while some of that money will come from public budgets , the vast majority will have to be provided through the private sector . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband internet network , up from international standards will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework might help stimulate .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states in becoming the world ’s largest economy ? but a recent co-authored study , written by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership would pass to china in 2014 . the international monetary fund recently forecast to overvalue china ’s economy as an american way of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) per capita by 2016 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that , in ppp terms , china actually surpassed america in ppp terms in 2010 . purchasing power parity actions a country ’s income , using a set of international prices applied to every country .
in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockade of the strait of hormuz , might have to inflict damage on the american and its allies . but one should not jump to the conclusions about this . the american people might be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less power ; but its oil is a fungible commodity , and the american economy remains sensitive to shocks from a sudden shifts in world prices . as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . a balance of energy imports and exports is simply a reworking of independence .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . amazon and indonesian rainforests are flooding , and climatic catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the amazon and indonesian rainforests are flooding , and climcatastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for whole populations .
hitting bottom is no reason to abandon the strong action that has been taken to reinvigorate the global economy . this downturn is complicated : an economic crisis has combined with a financial crisis . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon . nor was it the bottom line near – maybe the end of the year .
in my own career , i have seen firsthand that growth fueled by entrepreneurship competition in a globalizing world can do far more to combat a life of poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs alone . but it will also demand the involvement of business people if it is not being tackled responsibly . tackling the world ’s ’s ’s ecological and ecological challenges , and improving much of those left behind , will require public action such as that i have overseen in my own roles in the world bank , the un , and britain ’s governments . in seizing the opportunities of globalization , companies have often neglected the developed-world laborers they left behind , while rallying developing-country workers behind for extraordinary deprivation . in seizing the opportunities of globalization , companies have often neglected the developed-world laborers they left behind , while rallying developing-country workers behind for extraordinary deprivation .
and , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a fresh plebiscite pitching remains opposed to no deal . but , no matter what happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed from british politics . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his disparate opponents to overcome his differences in order to halt a no-deal brexit . many leavers would see this as anti-democratic upheaval . but it would be an incendiary move , too .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint special representative for the all-important ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance , and to make sure the full potential of sdg 14 is realized . the us has funded its destruction , with no regard for the consequences . the ocean has suffered decades of abuses and neglect , and it has suffered a decade of abuses and neglect . it has been treated as a free-for-all containment garbage bin and race-to-the-bottom buffet . such a representative needs to be given enough assets to do the job .
when crops fail , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low through the crushing debt burden ( often incurred on usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . that was just the past year for which official farmer data are available , but media reports suggest that the numbers have grown since . most of the bjp ’s government ’s neglect of agriculture was that of small-scale and marginal farmers , along with landless farm laborers . these groups dealt a body blow just two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , abruptly withdrawing 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . everyday wages , traditionally paid in cash , lost hundreds of millions of jobs because the replacement currency was not printed properly .
bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity , ’s massive and irreversible environmental consequences . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , indeed , there can be a 10 - or possibly even 100 more unknown - animal , plant , or funes . with six billion people and computations – and our individual consumption grow – we face enormous challenges in applying our natural resources sustainably . and there is one clear measure of how we perform at this task : extinction rates . for this reason , some colleagues and i calculated the rate at which bird species became extinct in the recent past , and the rate at which they would likely become extinct became extinct in the future .
cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to teach us . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , the ceo of the institute of digital power . and , last – perhaps most important – they enable their users to see the patterns and opportunities that would be impossible to discovery through traditional means . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per energy unit on “ unstructured ” data – the human brain carried out roughly 10,000 times better than even the best-man-made machinery . with systems growing in size and complexity , traditional computer architecture seems to have reached its limits , as power usage and transmission lag among components become increasingly burdensome .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system for common deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of such a scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , emphasize that deposit insurance would avert the danger of a run on banks in times of crisis . while the share of bad bank loans held in stable eurozone countries is just 2 % , most recently published international monetary fund statistics , from late last april , show a ratio of up to 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece . while this argument is true , critics emphasize mismatch risk , owing to high rates of bad lending on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries . to address this risk-mismatch and move ahead with brady plan , balance sheets will need to clean up before the next move begins .
until recently , ukrainian leaders had been used to more efficient means than a prison sentence for dealing with inappropriate opponents . she is in prison , for her part , because she has lost that strength . in 2000 , for example , a journalist georgiy gongadze was abducted and beheaded after publishing online reporting on high-level government corruption . this sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive for – a winner takes all , the vanquished to prison – for ruthlessness . it is difficult to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out , whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to unseat her , or to forces that want to exclude her from politics forever .
undoubtedly , there is a strong case for making a universal , impartial application of values . for innovation is what creates wealth and employment , despite -- or rather because of -- competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor , by pushing up the demand for their goods . this virtuous circle continues to see globalization 's enemies , as in reality a vicious one , encouraging exploitation by the poor and fragile ones . here , the questions of universal justice and human rights enter into the debate .
like italy , japan was on the frontlines in the cold war . that is why abe was the first foreign politician , after british prime minister theresa may , to rush to congratulate trump on his person in may 2017 . in some important ways , japan has benefited enormously from being under america ’s right-wing , and from a postwar constitution that is n’t just pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country has had before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression . constitutionally unable to engage in military adventures , aside from being a highly paid goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japanese , rather like countries throughout western europe , might concentrate on reconstructing its industrial power . but the american-style democracy still rings some pride in installing the post-1945 government .
the economics profession bears part of the blame for this . aside from just a small number of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that anyone reading or listening to english-language media coverage of the campaign could get to learn anything particularly interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies were probably better for america . nobel prize-winning winners like edward prescott have no business speaking talk of the benefits of tax cuts , without pointing out that a tax cut accompanied spending increases was not a tax cut at all , but rather a tax shift to the future – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulate . all of this economic legerdemain has been magnified by television , print , and internet journalists . but much of the problem stems from under-briefed , undereducated , and plain news corps .
so far , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . fayyad is the first palestinian leader not to emerge from the fatah movement , and he may also have understood what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . it may simply be that the palestinians are on the brink of a new chapter in their history – and in israel ’s history as they are . neither violence nor terrorism nor reliance on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , poland , the european union ) has succeeded in delivering statehood , something zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the awareness of the majority of palestinians – yet again , ever since 1948 , when the united nations proposed partitioning british palestine into two states , a jewish and arab party , has failed to move from ideology to reality .
at the same time , any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must defuse china ’s geostrategic worries about the korean peninsula ’s future . for centuries , china feared that the korean peninsula could become part of a chain of encirclement or serve as an invasion route . in 1592 , japanese general toyoshi hideyoshi stormed the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , has worked alongside korea against the imperial japan . for centuries , china feared that the peninsula could become part of a chain of encirclement or serve as an invasion route .
according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or alter a large but unforeseeable number of human jobs . the “ official ” narrative of technology treats rapid change as inevitable . at the same time , embracing new technologies has been seen as essential to a country ’s geopolitical and competitive achievement . but it is a slant that takes attention , because there is no solution to the problem of conventional policy responses . thus , disruptions to existing work patterns should be welcomed and rendered homeless , ” ” by adaptation education and social-security systems to the needs of an automation-driven job market .
first , developing , sustain , and utilize local capacity and leadership . developing scientific and technological capacities is less challenging than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less challenging than utilizing it . every nation must also develop strategies that offer researchers and technologists of local employment opportunities . yet the ultimate impact on science and technology depends on all three factors . first , each nation must develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists of local employment opportunities .
fifa is as complex as any big multinational private or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect this . and this is one reason why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade away . they must be head-on , with a clean sweep of its leadership and a comprehensive overhaul of its governance structures . a code of conduct on the field – where we expect actors to give in to their every set of explicit rules that misenforce independent referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . in this sense , fifa is not a special case : all nonprofit and for-profit organizations worldwide are expected to adhere to this code of conduct .
the industry has faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often set to set large numbers of staffers , particularly in their foreign interlocutors . still , as advertising revenues have vacuumed up by internet giants facebook and google , newspaper earnings have plunged . in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by more than 20 % since 2001 . in the west , for the last few years , young people have largely acted with the home-delivered physical morning newspapers and instead catch up on news alone whenever they select , use tablets , laptops , or cellphone . even a few grand degrees have either closed down or publicized only online .
during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge at every moment , far less during a period of profound economic crisis . yet things still turned out well : bosnian immigrants fared roughly as well as those of the swedes , who received them , enriching our societies . for decades , swedish industries became so dependent on immigrant workers . people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after military upheaval in 1973 , and iran following its 1979 military revolution . in the new century , refugees increasingly came from the middle east and the horn of africa .
at the same time , foreign firms are rushing to take advantage of european ’s tech talent . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion took place last year – compared to just $ 3.3 billion in 2014 – including softbank purchases by british <UNK> tor-reweapon arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion in purchases of nxp semiconductors . a further study , by boston consulting group , points out , many small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic , and the nordic countries – are ranked well above american in so-called “ e-intensity , ” ” which covers it for infrastructure , internet access , as are businesses , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities . in fact , one-third of these firms have acquired the us tech firm since early 2015 . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions in their european tech hubs .
this presents xi with a real challenge . he rose to the top by winning friends and allies inside the ccp . thus far , the public reaction has ranged from lement to derision . the “ china dream ” is no exception . after a decade of rule by joseph schumpeter , the chinese public wants substance .
in the us , president mitt romney has just assumed office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama as excessively soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , already leading to a severe credit crunch , and an abrupt flood of lower-priced imports from china , leaves a romney administration in a bind . demonstrations begin in major cities , calling for an end to right-wing corruption among party officials . against the advice of his economic advisers , he announced across-the-board import tariffs on chinese exports . moreover , china ’s ’s government opposes that it can not risk another round of strife and is announcing a regional package of measures designed to boost economic growth and avoid layoff , including direct financial support for exporters and intervening in currency markets to weaken the renminbi .
and , for that matter , it does not even appear to reflect the lobbying power of major financial players . that power surely explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms of 2010 had not been stronger , and why there is so much opposition now to the effective implementation of such legislation ( such as there has been a giant fight over the “ volcker rule , ” which would restrict proprietary trading by megabanks ) . i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – the payments made to individuals or even political campaign . yet mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter , too . why would the administration continue to bending over backwards to making it lenient for the top bankers under these circumstances ?
indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may have found many features in syria today . in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia – including the effort , in its aftermath , to realize the concepts of universal justice – has applications in the contemporary world . like bosnia , syria seems hopelessly divided among the warring factions , and the level of violence seems unstoppable . so far , the international community has been unable to achieve any unity of action , far less agreement on a path forward . to be sure , there are important differences as often .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign interventions , unilateral us efforts to maintain an overwhelming offensive supremacy would simply trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate a predominantly technological solution to this dilemma . their approach , the concept known as barren air-sea fighting , implies a mixed line of defense and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by precision-strike weaponry . officially , the pentagon is not really direct the concept of the air-sea fighting act against any specific country . for example , iran ’s possession of precision-strike capabilities , together with a far more hostile relationship with america , would warrant fresh american initiatives to meet growing security vulnerabilities .
mrs. watanabe has her talent for observing how the tide turns . should she be willing to assume an important role at this stage ? should she be willing to assume an important role at this stage ? or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? her advice is to catch an opportunity at work , and she also finds a level of happiness in marriage and child marriage . mrs. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge she needs .
in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : beyond closing chernobyl , the us will introduce western nuclear-safety standards , and renew cooperation with the imf through its expanded fund facility program . while we can and will continue to combat corruption , we can not do everything alone . international support for our effort is critical in our capacity to help . a positive sign here is a recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to complete nuclear power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky to compensate for a loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . the euroatom is also assisted by $ 585 million in loans to fund repairs at ukraine ’s well-functioning nuclear plants .
of course , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy , but a revolutionary agitation . today , russia ’s people wanted to make a difference , and spectacularly they did so : their energies and cohesion put an end to communist rule . it was expected to emerge from this sea of democratic emotion that new political institutions would emerge . although there is nothing like soviet oppression , the estrangement between the state and society is reminiscent of that in soviet days . here , instead , political life has been reduced to mere formality .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . almost everyone had surprised the revolts , though political and socioeconomic causal factors were well known . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard each other as an island of “ stability . ” ) but some of the initial lessons for international politics – and for western , particularly european , foreign policy – merit serious consideration . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we knew the phenomena , but failed to grasp their interactions , partly because politicians and analysts are unwilling to anticipate ruptures : familiar is held to a stable , even when it is so known .
whereas china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) at the end of 2011 , its landholdings and fixed-asset assets are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that even if asset values were written off by half , local governments would remain insolvent . in order to resolve it , the government has announced fiscal reforms designed to split revenues between the central and local governments , enabling local governments to issue long municipal bond issues . in fact , this leaves only the question of debt-servicing potential . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) at the end of 2011 , its landholdings and fixed-asset assets are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that even if asset values were written off half , local governments would remain insolvent . thus , this leaves only the question of debt-servicing responsibility .
“ progressive ” social liberalism and “ conservative ” free-market economics seem to have been two sides of the same coin . true , racial and gender equality are now backed by clear-cut majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even supposedly popular policies , such as trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls , rarely muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys . but when free-market economic liberalism failed during the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism might no longer be deflated now by invoking impersonal economic laws . the dominance of free-market ideology allowed for much of the controversial social change , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender parity and affirmative action , in order to go almost unchallenged . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism could no longer be rolled back by invoking impersonal economic laws .
just as the us had predicted nearly 20 years ago , as the us struggles to attain growth above 5 % for the 2021-2030 interval , a simple reason that its workforce growth will have peaked . it is just as predictable that india will begin to grow at a much faster pace than china does , simply because its working-age population still has a lot of steadily growing left to do . at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would , in fact , be rather extraordinary . the real issue is whether india is capable of implementing vigorous productivity-enhancing reforms . while pessimists will no doubt find validation in further chinese growth scares ahead , optimists can point to assuming that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally the equivalent of a 15-20 % growth in germany .
during his campaign , obama demonstrated these skill in his tranquility in his tranquility response to crises , his reality-show vision , and his super-b organizational capacity . furthermore , his contextual intelligence about world politics has been shaped from the bottom up of experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policies has been shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago . obama has continued to show these leadership skills in his near-flawless transition . obama has continued to show these leadership skills in his near-flawless transition . by selecting his primary adversary , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state , and reaching across party lines to maintain robert gates as defense secretary , he has displayed openness to powerful subordinates .
domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the jihad culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . internationally , [ it has ] diminished the country ’s stature and left its reputation smeared . even its spiritual development has warped the proliferation , popularization , increasing relative power … of the religious groups representing an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political evolution .
gref ’s program , too , is emblematic of a president ’s style : modernization from aforementioned -- ie , that started by government and , under his pressure , is equalizing modernization away from below , on a private initiative . enhancing competition will mean placing emphasis on antitrust policies and reducing government subsidies . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , deregulation , and stimulating competition . enhancing competition will mean placing emphasis on antitrust policies and reducing government subsidies . deregulation ( “ de-bureaucratization , ” really ) will make life easier for new businesses , by reducing the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats and decreasing the number of demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( of which have also been large sources of bribery ) .
in fact , the public no longer thinks of the european project as some a utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming to view as a practical – and absolutely essential – mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet its collective challenges . in simultaneous disagreements lie the roots of a stronger union . in fact , the eu ’s people are waking up to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and misallocates . the pattern is beginning to look familiar : new crises , new negotiations in brussels , initially muddled responses , debates , and divisions , followed by gradual yet gradual progress toward a shared response , powered by the recognition that there is no alternative at all .
howard davies chose to resign as managing director of the lse that awarded saif his own doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) and took money for a school from the libyan regime . in other words , would i have followed in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to swap views with and advising its dictator ’s – and paid off in return for his service ? these scholars have been pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly cozied up to qaddafi . there is a potent sentiment that academics and the institutions that colluded with such an odious regime – often with the help of their governments – have suffered from the grave lapse of judgment . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous stance during his uprising has exposed his true colors , no matter his more moderate posture in recent years .
the administration was reluctant to take steps that might themselves disturb the election . after all , in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of responding with cyber action , or with a cross-sector response like sanctions . so , eight days before the vote , america sent russia a warning of election meddling over a hotline , creating three years early to deal with major cyber incidents that link nuclear-risk reduction centers to the two countries . because russian hacking activity appeared to slow or cease , the obama administration cited the warnings as a success exercise in deterrence . but some critics say that russians had already achieved their central goals .
were such an initiative to be in place before ecuador ’s earthquake , it could have provided 12 months of emergency support , helped that country until it could rereinstate learning according to its national plans . once it is established , support would become accessible to humanitarian workers and educators develop immediate plans for providing education to children affected by emergency emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . injections of financing , promoting a common strategy developed in partnerships with governments would enable immediate education delivery in emergencies . in an increasingly protracted crisis like that of syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with support from the international community , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement under which donor governments would have provided principal in exchange for concessional lending from the world bank . as a result , the fund will fill the gap in the coordination and delivery of services by strengthening the system at its weakest point , providing a bridgeport to longer-term development .
for all of his profound emotional attachment to the idea of israel embracing all historic judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewishness with a viable , secure borders was to adopt a palestinian state alongside it , in an equal manner secure and viable . rabin ’s assassination represented a catastrophe from which the peace process has never recovered . no israeli leader since showed anything like his far-sighted vision , his commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . he would share jerusalem as the capital , finding mutually acceptable solutions to the ever more sensitive question of returning palestinian refugees . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not closer enough .
some might think that this might have been true only if the logical end of evolution and smart life constituted a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but that is not just what schneider and sagan mean . instead , they differentiate between matter and power , tells us that matter organized in structures disseminates power gradients faster than randomly assigned matter . as one example , they have long recognized a phenomenon of which beer drinkers have long been aware . if you wanted to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) and turn it upside down , the water will emerge with an uneven glugs .
argentina ’s concept as a country with infinite promise became desaparecido , the name given to those who disappeared in the dustbin of the 1970 ’s . no longer has a guide , an idea of how we think about our country , of how to understand it , and of the way to imagine which we are and will be able to become . we have lost the principle of organizing principle , and none of the other ideas has ever been replaced . through at least , argentina became a country without direction . it had n’t been easy living without knowing who we were , and it had become even harder to live that way as we watched our world crumble .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , notwithstanding the us senate report ’s finding that the techniques it employed have no valuable intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it plain that many of those detained and tortured are not at risk to american ’s security – at least not as long as us actions have made them so compelling . a week ago , an us senate report surfaced , as i read anand galiand galial ’s new book no good men among a living telling contemporary afghanistan to tell a story through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , the taliban commander , and kabul-born housewife who spent years in purdah in the taliban country . more and more immediately , the same narrative is playing out : local power-hungry broker is willing , even eager , to foster a new us-backed government , just to be denounced as a taliban member by a fellow afghan – typically for local political or personal – – typically seeking local political or personal reasons – to unwitting american troops . for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” agenda ( which obama halted ) , despite a senate report that techniques it employed have no valuable intelligence .
several other european governments find themselves in an analogous state of unpopularity not long after being elected . beyond europe , this applies even to the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun was the latter calling for a referendum to help arresting his sinking popularity . to replace the governor , which they re-elected only a year before with arnold schwarzenegger had to give californian enormous – if guilty – pleasure . the electoral success , so far , seems to be the making , fades fast nowadays . some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same for chancellor gerhard schröder , though they did not yet ( yet ! ) find a movie star to replace him .
china may still tap new markets through efforts like the belt and road initiative ( bri ) , ” but at a significant cost . last but not least , sustaining rapid growth also requires continuing to move up the global value chain , by implementing additional economic reforms , as well as focusing on new technologies . and , at the same time , “ opening-up dividend ” was reaching maturity and encountering protectionist barriers around the world . the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected a determination to market-resource allocation and lowering costs for doing business . and , in march 2015 , the authorities made china 2025 ” and “ “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take a country ’s manufacturing base at the internet age .
maybe not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of the poor has found that , while getting slightly more electricity has not been an measurable impact on their lives : they have not increased their savings or expenditures , they have not worked more or are beginning to study more enterprises ; and their children have not been learning more . little wonder : 170kwh is not what most of us would think of genuine access to electricity . off-grid energy at that level will never power a factory or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . off-grid energy at that level will never power a factory or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . and it will not help combat the world ’s largest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which mostly originated the open-engine wildfires fueled timber , cardboard , and dung , with an additional 3.8 million lives annually .
most of these countries ’ health systems are not built for chronic or preventive health care , and lack of essential consumer protections . some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive drive high rates of ncds . from 1970 to 2000 , the incidence of death and disability from ncds in low - or middle-income countries increased 300 % – the fastest pace in recent years of falling infectious diseases . residents of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution , and are less likely to have access to adequate nutrition as a result . from 1990 to 2010 , death and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries increased 300 % faster than the recent decline in infectious diseases .
rather , the politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional . when citizens and politicians come across to regard politics as a zero-sum game , resorting to brinkmanship and other nonbad-faith tactics , malaise sets in . both european and american debates have been replete with posturing and test for will , turns politics into a game of brinkmanship and chicken . in chicken , two drivers race toward a cliff ( or toward each other ) ; the loser is the first driver of swerve away in the face of an imminent disaster . but , if neither driver ’s concedes , both are destroyed and broken .
in the business world , global corporations ’ own quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their capacity to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continues to let them largely escape the depredations of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work , to prevent corporate-base erosion and profit displacement . yet political institutions have not kept pace with technological change and the resulting growth of markets . as ordinary egyptians , having organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square , and overthrew former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , it seemed that technology would necessarily spur democracy . but it soon became evident that these digital platforms could easily collaborate with authoritarian governments or terrorists , exploited to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and widened deep divisions and muddle in societies . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening allows parents to choose ” embryos with supposed characteristics .
still , a key lesson from ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has stood at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . increases in living standards , for example , are the product of technological innovations that in turn depended on fundamental research . yet federal government support of research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . while trump ’s nominee has criticized the rise in america ’s national debt , he is now proposing tax cuts that would add to the trillions of dollars to us debt in just the next ten years , not the entire $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim is adding , owing to some growth miracle , which will lead to more large tax revenue . addressing the panoply of additional problems confronting the u.s. will require more federal income , not less .
obama may be able to use his state of the union message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy for narrowing the budget deficit to a sustainable level . doing so would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establishing an independent commission to submit to congressional amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and spending reform . the same middle-of-the-road approach may be taking place in the second year to address the still outstanding fiscal issues . while it will probably lack the public option many of us take precedence , this still has a real accomplishment . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial-sector reform reform , where , as with healthcare , there is a welter of conflicting propositions .
the crushing electoral victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more akin to regime change , rather than routine turnover among democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged civic service ( including public radio and tv ) distributed constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened the court ’s capacity to hit down legislation . warsaw – poland has now emerged as europe ’s newest battleground in contests between the two present-day democracy models . in response , the european commission has launched official inquiries into potential breaches of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . furthermore , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s conducting foreign-currency rating , from a – to a bbc + , warning of possibly increasing cuts to come , as it accuses the polish government of diminishing “ legal ” and effectiveness .
moreover , in the shiite tradition , the strategy of the mahdi , shiite messiah , will be to harden every enemy upon his return to earth . thus , external forces appear not to appear to pose much threats . indeed , it does not believe that sanctions may bring about its collapse ; that is what external forces have to do . the regime seems convinced that there is only a small likelihood of a military strike against its nuclear program . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and none seems ever more fearful of khamenei and islamic leaders than of the societal dynamism unleashed by a democratic movement brewing inside the country .
throughout its history , a modern iraq was always one of the most repressive members of the arab world . for its own policy reasons , the british imposed sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population – in control of the entire country , and even the now imported sunni arab hashemite prince to rule over their creation . it was this sunni hegemony – and not simply that of saddam hussein ’s sunni ba’athist regime – that overthrew the united states . ever since , the country could be held together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts , all placed down in bloody fashion by the ruling sunni minority . saddam ’s rule was only the most brutal in a long lines of sunni regimes .
proteins that retain the same function across very different species – in general , when orthologs – are expected to retain the same fold . indeed , if the structure of proteins is conserved across species , where is our complexity emanating from ? sometimes the scale of sequence identities between two orthologs may be as low as 25-30 % ; still , their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of the function toward evolutionary change . this conservation of the protein fold across species makes the origins of our complexity all the more problematic because it is well known that the actual number of human genes deceptively are small , simply one directional of magnitude larger than , say , rice . but the sequence of amino acids that make up the protein chains at such orthologs may vary dramatically .
but it is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . georgia ’s current economic collapse provides little incentive for either those self-proclaimed independent republics to support reunification . similarly , georgia ’s inability to manage relations with its just autonomous republic , adzharia , exemplifies little confidence . indeed , president saakashvili seems to grasp the imperative of revitalizing georgian moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , continued political stability . similarly , the adzhar people view jordanians , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia see that their relations with georgian would work any better ?
while socioeconomic factors played some role in the outcome of the brexit referendum , an geographic breakdown tells the real story . excluding london , which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , some 55 % of the electorate in england supported the withdrawal of the eu , whereas 62 % of the scots and 56 % of northern ireland voted to remain . moreover , the scots , the welsh , and the irish have come to see eu membership as a safeguard against english-language political revanchism . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but is occurring with divisive side effects . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain has focused squarely on english-speaking national identities , while diluting those in scotland , northern ireland , and a welsh who would go back to serving as junior partners in far less magnificent and rewarding english-language projects .
in the us , we have witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate only last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publicize a report that called for revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of achieving clean energy cheap energy . yet , promisingly , and not surprisingly , given the rather toxic state of american politics , it attracted wide support and smart commentary from many mainstream pundits . the paper made the case for developing alternatives to the fossil-fuel industry , ensuring that economic development does not wreak environmental havoc , and acknowledging the importance of climate-change adaptation . entitled post-partisan power , ” a report comprehensively and unbelievable argues convincingly that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year in low-carbon military procurement , research and development , and science and new university-private innovations hubs to devise an energy revolution . this sensible suggestion predictably drew fire from committed alarmists and “ deniers . ”
dealing with the emergence of elite interests requires deingenuity . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ seeming solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is not quite as straightforward as it may seem . the trouble boils down to overcoming potential resistance – from both the elite and the general public – that could derail the handover or undermine a successor ’s authority . all four of north african rulers have , to a larger or lesser degree , made themselves the hub of highly opaque power structures . everything in their own countries depends on individual and family-like leaders .
many who agree that milosevic was a war criminal now think that we should be listening to the voices coming from belgrade and their outcry that milosevic should be facing trial before his own people . indeed , there seems to be a near-universal agreement that he should , with international pressure being put on president kostunica to comply . ultimate moral responsibility for what milosevic was doing rests with serbia ’s people . they brought him to power , though not to a manner that conforms precisely with his brand of democratic norms ; they backed him , even as he led them into genocidal crimes and defeat after defeat . but the decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future .
but , on a recent trip to israel , us white house advisor dan shapiro tells us that reason is reassured that israelis would not embarrass their american friends . pressed to make clear , palestinians acknowledged that no written promise can be made to this effect . for starters , there is again a lurch into what henry kissinger called the domain of “ constructive ambiguity . ” in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader , a party invitation to the white house . palestinians were reassured by the message of president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would carry no “ “ “ provocations ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations .
indeed , for every lee kuan yew of singapore , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , like zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , or uzbekistan for islam karimov . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by a desire to hold a party , not an individual , in power . to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( such as singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than the democratically elected leaders ( for example , italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) . in the longer term , however , democracies benefit from intrinsic , self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies where often-deficient leaders cling to power . the “ china model ” combines some of the authoritarian modernization model ’s advantages as a result of centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation from populism , and the superior capacity to implement painful but necessary reforms – with the leadership whatever one i have described through de-personalizing political struggle .
that way , shareholders , rather than regulators , would play the leading role in making banks behave sensibly . first , capital requirements should be tripled , not just in the us , but across the g-20 , in order to hold at least 20-25 % of the assets in core capital . yet the obama administration must go even further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two additional things . second , when banks are “ too big to fail , ” they must be shrunk , lest taxpayers be allowed to bail them out each time a crisis erupts . dilution of glass-steagall and its ultimate repeal in 1999 allowed banks to engage in the so-called “ proprietary trading . ”
its collapse would trigger a nuclear arms race across the world ’s most volatile region . iran ’s bitterest regional foe , saudi arabia , would shift quickly toward civilian nuclear capabilities using its abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . others would agree that turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria might not fall far behind . and make no mistake : the accord is on the whole . to bet that these countries , acquiring such weapons , would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble .
beethoven ’s germany is reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . his scoring of schiller by poetic ode reflect the truly global appeal of the enlightenment . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperatively . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany , or even to the west , but to all of humanity .
apparently , the terms offered by the government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target . in this crisis , how did reasonable economic policies prevail ? of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the authorities refinanced only $ 10 billion . instead , up to now , the government has mostly been lending ( high-interest ) loans rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . in fact , how did reasonable economic policies prevail in this crisis ?
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s palais , at least part of the debate will likely center on one of the world ’s most fractured spots : north korea . despite more than two decades of on-time negotiations , north korea ’s ’s nuclear-weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed much like that the west had faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against each other in europe . the us and its allies have successfully navigated the european challenge in the twentieth century without war . but , to achieve a comparable level of success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to adopt a very different policy toward north korea . when the american and soviet union became rivals following world war ii , each had channels for deterring another from invading .
theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in that direction , but it remains to be seen whether it ever translates into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new view ” through a selective appeal to religion – and to wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy , they should keep in mind , though , starting a kulturkampf is to play with fire : there may be some ways of content to be scolded ; but such passions can not permanently be brought under fed control from above . that is not an preposterous idea ; it is not an preposterous idea . there is a long , distinguished tradition of catholic social thinking between the us and france . but to take these traditions seriously would require a much larger form of transformations of capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are formulated for contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and mechanisms for comprising workers in management .
postponing a second consumption-tax increase looks like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and sustaining long-run credibility . the problem lies in both timing and tactics . fiscal sustainability demands an eventual rise in a consumption tax , and of course that japan should not wait until international investors begin to doubting its willpower . but this , in turn , brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . demand policies alone will not alone be able to prevent a further lost decade ; much less guarantee two golden ones .
one problem for trump is that he is obsessively obsessed with appearing “ strong . ” in fact , a policy of separating families has been threatening to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical adherents . unusually for him , former first lady laura bush has spoken out against a policy of staving off children from their mothers . and they have been willing to overlook the mounting evidence of trump ’s sexualized hijinks during his marriage to first lady , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to portugal ’s star and others for silence ) , in exchange for political influence and appointments to social conservatives to the supreme court , and across the federal judiciary . typically , congressional republicans have panicked and told trump and his team that his policies of cracking down on families could wreck their chances in november ’s midterm elections .
an ever-larger eu , including ukraine , would create a political corps with an enormous population , furthering the union ’s ambitions to become a global power . this will make it less likely that russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full-fledged democracy , because it can overrule an empire only as a militarized state . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will stimulate russia ’s imperial ambitions . it is the mark of a benevolent club of peoples clamor to become eu members . yet eu membership does not augur the estrangement from russia .
in just a couple of years , refugees were absorbed into the economics and society of the southern , greek cypriot industry of the island . anyone visiting the greek cypriot part of the island nowadays will not find refugee camps : much of the millions accepted tourists know of the fact that more than a third of greek cypriots who they arrived are refugees or the offspring of the refugees . poland , for its part , was emboldened by its use of government subsidies and loans . schools and training centers were established in the country as a whole . like in post-world war ii west germany , much of the current prosperity in cyprus today is the outcome of the boost that an economy received from refugee absorption .
alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels a revolt against globalization and democracy . it is , after all , not hard to see why . in nigeria , an astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % annually since 2000 , may well have lifted poverty reduction in the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram has the most earnings ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are evident , from china to egypt to greece . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect the wealthy have grown richer , because they are not held to the same rules as everyone else .
as its economic and geopolitical clout has waned , so has its willingness to weigh renouncing its nuclear status . russia ’s military officers , it has reported , directly command massive military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of an important transport center of debaltseve in february . yet the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . indeed , not only has it revived a cold war-era tactic of sending military aircraft un-announced in airspace over baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also exposed veiled nuclear threat against countries like denmark . after all , russia is the one country with sufficient missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy america ’s deterrent .
contrary to what many democratic cassandras think , the worst is not inevitable . authoritarians and populists have not yet triumphed , and , in many places , the democrats are fighting back . for now , it remains precarious which model will prevail . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have similar odds of decaying . as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err with hope than to be correct with desperation . ”
there are two preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage . one argues that coercion can change minds . one might dismiss this dispute as being mere rhetoric . but , using the talmudic logic , one can also show that there are mechanisms that can and should – and should – be used to put pressure on parties in the interests of acquiring superior voluntary outcomes . the prevailing response is that one coerces bondholders to accept the deal “ voluntarily . ”
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan launched by prime minister shinzo abe in 2012 has been coming under growing scrutiny . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has performed quite well : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and the unemployment rate has fallen to just above 3 % . yet japan ’s current travails , which delivered the concomitant drop in japan ’s stock-market share , stem from the yen ’s appreciation rate of 24 % over the last year , against major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which involved substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has little to do with it . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , with tax revenue exceeding € 20 trillion ( $ 188 billion ) .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis appears to be coming to an end . growth in the united states , and parts of europe has returned . asset markets performed reasonably well in the summer of 2010 . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , seemingly sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilized ” massive capital inflows . private-sector deleveraging has continued , but it has been counterbalanced by rising public-sector deficits and debt .
suppose it was 1939 and states debunked whether america should come up with a bomb . they might have argued that all of them should get it or none at all . but history depends on our routes taken in the past . if nobody had the bomb today , it would be best if not invented . in a world of sovereigns , is it hypocritical for some to possess nuclear weapons and to deny them to others ?
china ’s retail markets peaked at cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . china ’s retail markets topped cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . and that ’s ’s ’s good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s commercial sector by fung business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences maps suggest change . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s commercial sector by fung business police and the chinese academy of social sciences maps show change .
part of the attractions of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , readily available , affordable , and convenient , to use ( need not just to shoot up , snort , or to smog ) . worldwide , these stimulants are estimated at $ 65 billion , and the global market for such stimulants is estimated . amphetamines accelerate the way the body works : users experience increased trust , collective power , and energy . but , again , what goes up must start down , only to start things again . part of the attraction of such synthetic drugs lies in the fact that they are readily available , accessible , and convenient use ( there is no need to shoot up , snort , or smoke ) .
trials of the balkan wars and the great number of wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990s were initiated through transnational organizations like the united nations environment progam ( unep ) . what did we have learned about the ecological consequences of wars ? first , effects depend on a kind of war and a sense of environment . attempts have been made ever since to investigate and document the ecological effects of wars . regrettably , africa ’s wars – in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast – have yet to receive the attention they require .
paris – whoever wins on september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has once again come for a major franco-german initiative . britain has , for its part , largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe . regardless of their economic conditions , or their confidence , or the lack of it – in each other , france and germany are , more than ever , jointly responsible for the future , if not its very survival – of the european project . are there alternatives to franco-german leadership in europe ? joining great britain with them in the “ three club ” would be a good idea , but it is out nowadays .
upon his return to office this spring as prime minister , singh has brought into government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , to serve successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads the planning commission , a crucial body evaluating india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget puts those fears to rest . when hu ’s former government lost the vote this past may , and singh ’s government went into office , fears were hurled by singh ’s left-wing coalition partners demanding that market reforms be dismantled as the prices of their participation in the new ruling coalition . in short , there is a model for all developing countries to which the budget is based in the world . the paper presents a brilliant lesson in development economics : it demonstrates how to combine the full-fast ahead of market-oriented reforms with urgent attention to poverty .
for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia ’s economies may ultimately have been behind the recent war there . according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth between 2002 and 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp rose by 52 % in ukraine , and 46 % in russia . that is now history : real per capita gdp growth was only 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and just 1.3 % in russia . and , indeed , such fears can have had severe effects . the discontent generated by such frustration can help to explain ukrainian separatists ’ anger , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea , and his support for the separatists .
fourth , the eu must address the aspiration to a common foreign and security policy . after all , the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must be supranational , too . after all , which measures can ensure the eu ’s commitment to global competitiveness ? but this is impossible without a clear european identity , and therefore a shared interest , to be well advised and defended . after all , how can we narrow current disparities in developmental and material well-being within europe ?
barcelona – after world war i , when a million european civilians became refugees , forced from their homelands through enemy occupation or deportation , an international regime was developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those who were forcibly uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is taking place , and this time there is europe , which has the power to provide a safe haven for desperately poor people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its responses failing to match the urgency with the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people worldwide made a serious effort to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 people died as a result – more than twice the number of such deaths in each of 2013 .
for example , america ’s sanctions ultimately brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but the sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition – ultimately backed by the un security council – isolated iran financially . american sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were compounded by a coincidental oil-price drop and deployment of similar actions by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . without eu participation , america ’s sanctions would have been far less effective . yet , while international coalitions lend credence to american sanctions , they are fragile and temporary , at best . just one year after the iran deal struck , it is already difficult to imagine that china or russia would back further joint actions against iran , even if the agreement had begun to unravel .
india ’s state-run oil and natural-gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) generates sudanese oil , and over the next two years india ’s diplomatic missions will open up in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a unified africa partiting organization ; it now has three : west and south africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeded $ 3 billion , with the oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . a study by the confederation of indian chambers of commerce and industry has identified five major industries that can operate as “ growth engines ” to propel an indo-africa free trade : pharmaceuticals and health sector , information technology , water management , food processing and education .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiations between israel and palestine , in which the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a genuinely international solution . this paradigm should be extended to the geneva negotiations on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming an enhanced role . as a result , the goal must be a clarity and equilibrium . to be sure , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . only with a balanced negotiating process guided by regional and global actors can a stable balance of middle eastern power be achieved .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . it can mean something unconstrained , accessible , and possibly vulnerable ; or it may mean something like a person or agency that is fully transparent , as opposed to being secretive . after all , structural change can be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive . and policymakers have a long history of striking the balance between the abstract principle of self-containment and concrete action to limit the worst effects of change . former meaning frequently applies to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not align with opportunity with vulnerability ) , which has always fueled structural economic change , particularly with respect to employment .
so the fed felt compelled to do more of the same , resulting in a host of unintended consequences and the risks of the collateral damage that i had discussed in some detail in my book the only game in town . the fed had hoped that this would have made certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) feeling richer , enticing them to spend more , and encouraging companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” ” ” proved quite feeble . faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed attempted to spur growth in its indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity using more means , it raised financial asset prices well beyond what the economy ’s fundamentals warranted .
as a result , certain groups of neurons , such as those responsible to produce and perceiving language , can start practicing autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . what remains unaddressed is the root causes of the abnormal brain activations . around the world , we are pursuing three intertwined ideas ; each is acting together in our lives . the first is based on studies suggesting that patients with schizophrenia who suffers from declining brain connectivity . as a result , certain groups of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and perceiving language , can start functioning autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems .
i have seen the effects of deforestation in both antarctica and those andes . yet bold , visionary leadership will then be necessary to close the kyoto protocol ’s successor in copenhagen later this year . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon.com and the loss of biodiversity . the agreement reached there must be an ambitious , effective , and just solution , offering wealthy nations a way to cut back on greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting poorer countries as they adjust to the adverse effects of climate change . the very existence of some of the caribbean countries , including gabon and denmark , may have been threatened if the sea level continues to rise .
likewise , since the 1990s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from their experiences . while singapore ’s political system could not readily be transferred to an enormous country like china , it represents a model that helped shape china ’s recent move toward “ meritocracy . ” indeed , following singapore ’s example , china has developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and nurturing political leaders that include decades of training and a battery of exam exams for officials at various stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders have overseen an economic boom that lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . at the same time , however , problems like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have worsened .
relations between the two allies have entered one of those periods of tension that has flared many times since the close of world war ii . the united states vetoed reelection , advocated by france , a un secretary general mosleros boutros-ghali , argued that it had wished to “ enlarge the role ” to the common secretary general in reforming the world body . ( on both sides of this spat were rather paradoxical , if one remembers that de gaulle wished to soften as much as he could do , the un ’s powers to which he contemptuously alluded to it as a “ thingamajig ” and that america owes more than a billion dollars in past contributions to the un . ) today , that seems to show nothing short of franco-american goodwill . at the same time , washington now does not even want to hear any talk about conferring to a european , as france demands , the command-and-control fleet commands in the mediterranean .
most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which means that millions more people have lifted themselves out of poverty . yet freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . for example , a 2015 white house report found that an often-percentage-point drop in tariffs results in a one-percentage-point drop in the gender-equal wage gap , and that mitigation tariffs also reduce wage differentials based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased openness to trade correlates with lower levels of infant mortality and higher life expectancy , particularly in developing countries . over time , free trade facilitates workers ’ movement toward more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , enhanced infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy .
as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china , with its spectacular economic growth and development in recent decades , has eroded hong kong ’s leading position as a center for finance , logistics , and commerce . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s ’s foreign trade , and its gdp amounted to nearly one-fifth of china ’s . it far outperformed shanghai – mainland china , ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s . but hong kong ’s advantages are now under threat , owing largely to its own lures .
brexit is and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . finally , remaining in the eu ’s customs union would force may to avoid reestablishing a hard border between the united kingdom and the republic of northern ireland . the alternatives at the eu ’s disposal are either to see the uk walk away from its customs union , or to hold the uk together , by making a policy commitment to assume british interests . while may has agreed that avoiding hard borders should be part of any deal , she has offered only vague suggestions regarding how this could actually be achieved . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable .
but some of the most powerful leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , were little more than five legs tall . various studies have shown that tall men are often favored , and corporate ceos look taller than their average . a traits-centered person has not vanished out of leadership studies , but has been diffused and made more flexible . a tall , handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ looks like a leader ” to be taller than an average . the search for essential traits to a master field of managerial study until the late 1940 ’s and remains common in popular discourse today .
an globalization that can be defined as interdependence at inter-continental distances is like old as human history . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or trade along an ancient silk route connecting medieval europe and asia . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of an englishman in london using a telephone for order goods from around the world to arrive at his home this afternoon . today , however , globalization differs widely , how it is becoming faster and thicker . after the first trans-atlantic cable of 1868 , europeans and americans could communicate with one or another minute .
one might , of course , argue that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately addresses the problem of periodic systemic risk and a us return to an increasingly comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but i would not bet on this happening in the near future . the historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulators ’ efforts to eliminate it . for example , a endowment or pension fund might regard basing its payoff on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a very weighted average of past returns or end-period asset values ( what the regular practice now is ) . but the fact is that i would not bet on this course .
either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses the low-emissions forms of power generation , such as the wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require government funding , alongside private investment . third , america ’s recovery will be no credible unless something also has a strategy for getting the government back on track . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to slash taxes three times , while simultaneously hiking expenditures on war . the result has been massive budget deficits that will expand to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) , under the fed ’s added weight , bank bailouts , and short term fiscal stimulus . for all of these , all of these technologies will require public funding , alongside private investment .
according to the 2005 declaration on principles of international ballot observations , a credible monitor requires that it be met by five criteria . first , observers must be autonomous – financially and otherwise – in their relationship to the host country . second , observers must be placed unconstrained by all aspects and the phases of the election process , just as every technology that is involved has been involved . third , there are no constraints in being met by any government and political actors at all . fourth , there must be no external threat of any pressure or threat of russian retaliation .
this example is relevant for the politics of public services , which dominates debate in many countries because it lies at the heart of the huge problems facing both governments ’ budgets ( and cutting them back ) and taxation ( and cutting them ) . as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes evident that the best-measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , not necessarily the most extensive . even more important , they should be affordable , international organizations , and reasonably comfortable . more important , they should be affordable , so that they are intended . they should run , not just on time , but in an appropriate manner and at reasonable intervals simultaneously .
we saw helicopters attempt air drops ; landing is impossible in most places . we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothes first , triggering a rebellion . but people told us that they often missed and supply land claims up thousands of legs or below deep forests . distributing is haphazard and uncoordinated , done with little thought to think . hustlers are thriving , a thin watch passively .
in fact , the trial process of directed technological change , ” ” in which bold goals are set , milestones are identified , and the timelines embedded in them , is far more common than many realize . the information-technology revolution , which made us computers , smart phones , gps , and much higher , was based on an ongoing series of industries and government roadmaps . for example , in carrying out the manhattan project ( to produce an atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first lunar landing , america ’s government has set an impressive technological goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources needed to get that job done . the example of an atomic bomb might appear an unpleasant one , yet that raises an important question : if we ask governments and researchers work together to work together on the technology of war , should we really do the same thing to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in both cases , researchers and engineers delivered it over time .
anti-americanism , however , is simply irrational for a russia that stands only to gain from an alliance with the world economic and political leader . to be sure , good relations with europe make priority over russia , particularly economic linkages , human contacts , and social interactions . but strategic alliances with the eu in foreign and security policy remain unrealistic and inefficient . russia will also reap the benefits of active foreign-policy engagement with eu leaders . europeans will most likely continue to grow weaker , rather than stronger , on this front .
and with the emergence of new diseases like zika – and the resurgence of old foes like bubonic plague – there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . furthermore , globalization has compounded the dangers by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . a influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 – which killed between 50 and 100 million people – would be even more devastating today . to avert such catastrophic results , we need a comprehensive approach to boosting health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . in particular , these countries need to help improve drug delivery and manage chronic conditions like cancer and diabetes , which impose exorbitant burdens on their economies .
piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . the advantage of income-tax increases is that they might have been based not just on current incomes , but on certain median incomes over several years , and could have allowed investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with a wealth tax , without penalizing those saving more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , an long-planned plan legislated by one or several countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occurs , might have helped to spur an international dialogue of appropriate future policies toward inequality . that would create room for a more uniform tax response among countries , thereby reducing the ability of the super-rich to evade taxation via back-room negotiations . and , assuming a wealth tax , instituting them now to take effect only on the future – and only if inequality turns out to be far worse – would preempt a perception that the rules were changed after the game put an end .
yet chinese authorities viewed them as challenges to their rule , punishing me accordingly . my first stint in a chinese prison was tied to the work that i began in the early 2000s printing and distributing tibetan-language books . many spent years in jail for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . i regarded these texts as an important readings on tibetan politics , culture , and religion . as the 2008 olympics came to a close , i began seeking new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – massive protests in warsaw have made headlines worldwide in recent weeks . yet the new law permits polish president andrzej duda to replace up to three-fifths of the supreme court ’s injustices , including the chief justice of the law , in 2018 alone . poles are demonstrating against legislation formulated by the country ’s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would be reducing the retirement age of polish supreme court justices , effectively empowering all judges over the age of 65 , and allowing the pis to pack up a court with its own tame injustices . that means that judges can not be removed by law , at least not constitutionally . the polish constitution provides for an independent judiciary , and sets a term for poland ’s first ever presidency after six years .
back in his radical days , ken livingstone , the former mayor of london , famously quipped that , if voting changed , it would abolish it . in latin america , it turned out , elections really do reshake things up . recent proof : mauricio funes , the standard bearer of the fmln – until not long ago a marxist guerilla movement – just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anybody remembers being ruled , its hook , or exuding them , a kind of reactionary oligarchy . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory is adopted peacefully , because it has so far , it implies that latin america has indeed come a long way .
the economist friedrich hayek put it right in 1945 : the economist friedrich hayek defined it well in 1945 : because he was at ease with a sufficiently powerful , but non-organized , knowledge that can not possibly be called scientific in the sense of knowing general rules : the knowledge of particular circumstances and the place itself . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantages over all others in that he possesses the unparalleled information of which might be beneficial , but of which use can be advanced only if decisions depending on it , or were made with its active collaboration . the problem is that the promise of a genuine “ unique kind of information ” comes with the realities of vulnerability to fraud . the problem is that the promise of a genuine “ singular information ” comes with the realities of vulnerability to deception . that is , to say , channeling dispersed knowledge into new firms requires a regulatory framework that favors becoming truly enlightened and honest .
in reality , all is gearing up behind the scenes to july “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” ” and what those party involved in the talks calls “ an even larger slog of ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in fact , all of them are gearing up behind the scenes . even if some sort of communiqué were paved together in december – and countries experiencing elections approaching , such as the united kingdom – will push through one , it is hard to believe that it will include sufficient detail , or reflect properly on properly reaching the impact so desperately needed . perhaps the only people not abruptly depressed are those immersed . with more than 1,000 items still agreed , all policymakers today i spoke out recently , saying that they could not see how a meaningful agreement could be reached at december in copenhagen . “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , in part because – and that may sound odd , at first – it is all about climate change .
several changes are needed to ensure that the growth of ev usage and sales continues . more people are arriving at the same conclusion , and those of us who have championing evs as one of the solution to climate change are notoriously optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . sales of electric cars have expanded dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 were registered in 2016 , nearly half in china . still , it is human nature to resist change , with many prospective purchasers remain hesitant . that is why tackling consumption bias must be a top priority over the coming years .
at the same time , the wto ’s gradual marginalization would erode its credibility in fulfilling its crucial role as adjudicator for trade disputes . a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it . to be sure , this constitutes a remarkable advance in global governance , at least for now . a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it . even when wto decisions had severe adverse effects on a trading partner , they were generally accepted .
most important , the energy market , the natural-gas market , and the market for tourist rentals have been liberalized , and the process for acquiring an investment-based investment license has been streamlined further . now that the greek government has delivered on its portion of the bailout deal , it is time for its european and international counterparts to conclude a first revision of its program . all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that have governed greece over the past 30 years , and are therefore responsible for driving it to the brink of growth . it is as if they can not yet fully grasp how reforms can help kick-start an economy with deep structural problems . this will enable the government to advance toward a second phase : coping with excess unemployment and put the economy back on a path toward growth .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge , but a leader of foremost global power continues to lament the issue ’s hands . early in november , us president donald trump gave official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby reaffirming the decision he announced in march 2017 . announced came as soon as the deal was done , and withdrawal will become effective the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . as a result , the united states will become the only country in the world free of the pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is surely a true stretch to bemoan the state of corporate earnings in the us . commerce us department statistics show that after-tax corporate earnings ( technically after-tax profits from current output , adjusted for inventories , and depreciating ation-accounting distortions ) stood at a sturdy 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . while that is down from its 11 % peak hit in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts upward pressure on profit margins , it hardly attests to the chronic earnings problem . far from anemic , current gdp share of after-tax earnings is well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . the corporate-tax trends , which have stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict .
the widespread prescription of drug for troubled minds has always ended badly , right back to opiate days and cocaine , up through the bromides , barbiturates , and tranquility : all have proven highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denials still failed to admit that this was so . in england , prescriptions of anti-depressants now match valium at its climax in 1979 . it is now evident that today ’s anti-depressants are not the wonder drugs that they have been touted as being . in fact , the last decade saw a three-fold increase in prescriptions . it now seems evident that those of today ’s anti-depressants can not be the wonder drugs that they were being touted as being .
in venezuela , with an unemployment rate of 20 % , the same is expected . of course , such measures will still be unpopular with labor , and here the correct response is to the removal of large tax on wages in such a way that raises money wages , without an offsetting fall in competitiveness . indeed , most high-unemployment economies have shown little feedback from a currency collapse into a form of inflation . the best result , of course , is for chavez to shift an economy in order to a less exposed external position with a large ( 50 % , at least ) depreciation . in greece , most high-unemployment economies show little feedback from the currency collapse .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing serious water-related challenges – from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more erratic , with increasingly frequent and intense floods imposing significant human and economic costs and impeding development in poor countries . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the un ’s millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which are expire in 2015 , addressing such issues should be a top priority . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , with 2.5 billion people lacking adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , and annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double the entire total of official development assistance .
when such policies fail , citizens hold mayors accountable . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are on the front lines when implementing urban policymaking . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communication linkages within their communities , and thus the most capable of organizing effective partnerships to resolve and resolve local issues . events in france are also pointing to the need , at the european level , to strengthen policies against discrimination , and to promote social equality . but all public actors , not just police , must respond to urban problems .
at the same time , the welfare state is being undermined . the american example , the world ’s only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . in europe , however , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . the substitution of earnings through unemployment compensation ( after tax adjustments ) hit 70 % and up . at the same time , the welfare state itself is being undermined .
roughly 16 % of the world ’s total energy needs ( up to 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) are now met by electric power . zurich – repeatedly over the last few years – has been calls for a revival of a civilian nuclear power . in july 2010 , a combined total of 439 nuclear power plants with a net installed capacity of 37,038 gw ( e ) to connect to various national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) more than in early 2006 . yet that new renaissance never seems to have appeared to be on the way . indeed , roughly 16 % of the world ’s total energy needs ( up to 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) are now being met by electric power .
denver – the united nations constitution , which turned 225 years old last summer , is a remarkable tally : the provisions of the now-back of the eighteenth century continue to guide process for twenty-first-century governance . the ramifications of this state of affairs will be reminiscent of the coming weeks , as us president barack obama fills the senior positions at his second-term administration . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require “ “ the advice and consent of the senate , ” including the nomination of top officials . probably nobody , 225 years ago , has any idea that the number of officials deemed to call to require senate confirmation would eventually exceed 1,400 , or that senate confirmation will involve a scaf-run process that often takes years to complete . in many cases , the process will not be pretty .
a critical dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and raises the same issue about european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel shows , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard supply security as a matter of collective concern , rather than an issue that every country must address on its own . as a recent study by bruegel shows , the eu as a whole could , with some efforts , dispense with gas imports from russia . but this sense of solidarity has been consistently missing in the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , the fact is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the department of justice under president donald trump appears to be continuing along a long lines of tradition . nobody is surprised that trump himself is deploying each orwellian devices at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives .
as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have found , a small decline in electricity use fails to translate into less power pumping into the grid ; and therefore , there will be no reduction in emissions . but , even if everyone in the world is cutting all residential lighting , and this translated entirely into carbon abatement , the equivalent of china pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . furthermore , during earth hour alone , any significant drop in electricity demand will entail the cut in co2 emissions over the hour , but would be offset by a rush from firing coal-fired power stations to restoring electricity supplies in afterward . hypothetically , switching off co2 lights per hour would cut carbon dioxide emissions from power plants all over the world . in reality , earth hour causes the increase in emissions .
the institute ’s work seems to be centered on the devices that have read brain activity . after the organization , in 2013 , in which the kremlin-backed candidates for membership had failed to perform well , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . but it also evidently oversees all types of construction projects on the vast land plot adjacent to the federal national security service ’s headquarters ( fsb ) – the kgb ’s successor organizations – as well as the federal protection service . if we keep following the scientific-currency track , we arrive at a prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) , which held an election last week . it then decided that to guarantee “ fairness , ” ” ” ” ” the government would approve all applicants , despite being academics .
airing opinions is the cheapest way to fill a broadcast hour ; ranting anchors score top trps . so , rather than provide context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are hamstrung by headlines re-stimulating prurience or outrage . this reinforces the incentive to engage with sensational speculation , still baseless , as occurred in shamdevi ’s case . the result has been unsettling , placing it mildly . more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has weakened the incentive for journalists to perform due diligence , in terms of checking stories and verifying claims .
washington , dc – informed opinion is sharply divided about how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some inclined to see a potential “ double-dip ” recession . this is having an interesting debate , but it misses the larger picture . in the wake of the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most of the industrialized world placed some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for large financial institutions . those focus on emerging-market governments emphasize accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % surge in world output .
yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly reveal that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when it comes to their countries ’ futures . consider this : france has the european union ’s highest fertility rate ( just below two of its children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . how is it possible that those who are so profoundly negative for their shared future as a nation go about confidently building their private futures within their families ? one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france that elected nicolas sarkozy as its new french president , and that is currently poised to cede power to his main parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . of course , that rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s majority population ; it is , of course , far stronger than its european neighbors and nearly equal to that of the us .
new york – a around reception in the united states and other advanced economies , thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century , attests to growing anxiety over rising inequality . his book lends extra weight further to an already overwhelming body of evidence related to his soaring share of income and wealth at the very top . moreover , piketty ’s book gives another insight on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii viewing that period as an historical anomaly , perhaps caused by an unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic statism can spur . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was widely shared , with all groups moving forward , but with those at the bottom seeing enhanced percentage gains . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher during the 1980s , as growth-enhancers that would benefit all .
in an entirely elastic economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant increase in unemployment ) could be avoided if the resources formerly occupied in selling imported consumer goods could quickly be used to generate exports . in the case of greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry might absorb some of the unemployed vendors . yet shops and showrooms still can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity remains limited until sufficient time has passed over to build new hotels , relocations , and so on . but retail stores and automobile dealers can not easily transform themselves into tourist attractions , whose capacity remains limited until sufficient time has passed to build new hotels , relocations , and so on . this drop in gdp , though a natural result of lower imports of consumer goods , is often wrongly perceived as avoidance , as it seems to imply that output is below its “ potential . ”
in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to relax fiscal policy . but this year , the united kingdom appears to be the only way to tighten its policy , and that assumes recent political ruptures failed to alter its fiscal orientation , reflected in an exchequer chancellor that last fall ’s declaration . japan ’s output gap with the advanced economies has all but vanished , inflation is set to be its strongest since 2010 . but just as fiscal policy was being tightened when countercyclical economic conditions appeared to invite easing , now is being relaxed when the conditions seem to have called for tightening . most observers would agree that government debt levels are already uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , thereby imprudent discussions of policymakers to return them .
second , the 70-year period , which began with widespread diffusion of the automobile – during which one could get nowhere in a typical local metropolitan area in a half-hour or less – is now over . before widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on location and proximity to the central city or indigenous railroad stations ran a premium . now , with serious congestion slowing traffic in major cities into a crawl , landgradient in housing prices is steep once again . and , with demand for high - and housing-heavy supply set to occur – at least in the short run – prices go up . perhaps that steepening of the location gradient could be delayed over a decade if we were still willing to shift to a denser residential patterns .
with austerity – that is , deficit reduction , once a recession has ended , recovery could take longer to become consolidated ; but once it is , economic performance has become even more stable , because the government ’s accounts are in an environmentally sustainable position . john maynard keynes famously said that , in the long run , we are all dead . that might be true , on a long enough timeline . but it is no excuse to dismiss the emergence of longer-term considerations . in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived , and the economy remains alive and kicking .
( when america ’s economists advise china to boost consumption and cut its saving rate , they merely sign the wrong habits of american culture that saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) second , saving and investment flows are global rather than trade . a country like china , with a high saving rate that exceeds local investment needs , can promote investment in other parts of the world that save less , especially in low-income africa and asia . a famous psychological experiment found that a young woman who can resist her immediate temptation of eating an air mallow and thereby earning two marshmallows her in her future was likelier to thrive as adults than are capable of doing . likewise , societies that defer to us and invest in the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security .
my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that , if enacted between now and the un ’s 2030 target date , the world economy will run at least $ 1 trillion annually – and possibly twice the rate of improvement if policymakers make inefficient policy choices . yet these “ green-energy ” bikes amount to a victory of empty gestures over substance and reason , which makes them the nonetheless sadly representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that , if enacted between now and the eu ’s 2030 target date , the 2016-2030 paris accord will cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion per year – and potentially double the average of just 0.05 ºc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . even if promised emissions cuts were to continue throughout this century , the paris agreement would have cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ° celsius by researchers from the massachusetts institute of technology find similar reductions . this , in turn , makes the deal the costliest in history
shut down on the transfers of the united states ’ military technology and hardware ever since vladimir putin ’s 1989 tiennamen square incident ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by a “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; and china is especially anxious to upgrade and enhance its military might and rapidly . despite initial denials by the kremlin , china , beginning earlier this year , has been buying two advanced destroyers , along with anti-ship cruise missiles from russia . with russia having seen its gross domestic product falling by 40 % since communism ’s end , russia needs to maintain its defense industries as one of the handful of sources of national revenue . there are interventions by two american-made aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 , humiliated by a chinese ally forced to stop intimidating taiwan with its missile tests . yet , despite initial denials by the kremlin , china early this year refrained from buying two modern-day destroyers , along with anti-ship missiles from russia . there are the fact that russians are losing control of the unofficial , black-market flow of arms to china .
left unanswered , however , is what comes next . both obama and romney have run the risk of color to themselves becoming a corner when they come to china . that could take all of us to the edge of a slippery slope . china bashers typically begin to change their tune after the french election . but there is nothing characteristic of the pressures likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 .
today ’s great challenge is to calm the fear that our past traditions are being undermined ; reach out to those who are coming into our lands from other countries ; and to search for ways of recreating our political ethic around the globe of human rights , equality , indiscriminate , and democracy . but rising individualism – focusing on one ’s own aspiration and our economic prosperity – poses stubborn obstacles to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many peoples – romania ’s health-care debate today undercuts the very foundation of what a modern , democratic society is doing . they are the people who , in some ways , lacked the full citizenship that demanded it , and who reformed the political order by obtaining it . if we succeed , we could create a sense that we belong together , even as our reasons for believing so may differ .
yet halappanavar and her husband were then informed that northern ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still had a heartbeat , enabling the process to be entirely out of the question . halappanavar has died from september of september , which her family is certain to fail if the startup handles is implemented . the halappanavar case thus reveres the western stereotype of the eastern community as preserves by superstition and of religious extremism . protests in iran have placed premier enda sneny on the site , with activists there , like those in india , arguing that halappanavar has died as a secular theocratic approach to health care . iranian abortion-rights activists emphasize that lawfully male life is not taking precedence over maternal life in their land ; instead , they take precedence over maternal health – a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states .
that explains why park has pursued closer ties with china , despite south korea ’s being democratic japan . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in his recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to reach out to park a grand bargain : if japan expresses a greater degree of remorse for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to abandon historical grievances from official policy . all countries ’ legitimizing narratives are blurring historic fact and myth , at best . yet , to some extent , historical legacies may be gaining undue influence , overwhelming leaders of the capacity to make rational policy choices . neither japan nor south korea can make a difference in the past , and neither has the past .
munich – as america ’s various saving plans take hold , the share of markets is recovering somewhat . bank shares , in particular , are rebounding , with some banks even succeeding , receiving repaying at least a fraction of their government-issued capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may be only a temporary improvement in expectations rather than a sign of permanent recovery , because the size of us banks ’ hidden loss to their balance sheets may be enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs for financial claims in this crisis will reach $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european union , and the united kingdom , of which the us itself will have to absorb about $ 2.7 trillion . likewise , the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio has gradually climbed back to its long-run sdg march 16 .
a state-led , developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail because it calls for strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of these can now be found in bolivia , which means that the money concentrated in the state would undoubtedly be reallocated through patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off high corruption , resulting in social pressures of every sort . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be wasted , because the projects typically transmit cost-benefit analysis when the financing comes from easy money , generously handed out maternal nature . thirty years after bolivia ’s 1952 national revolution , per capita income remained essentially just the same , with a poverty steady rate of more than 50 % of the population . conceived , perhaps with the best purposes , morales ’s model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest people ; but it merely paves the way for the frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia .
making matters worse , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent extremists returning from syria . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with us-based rudimentary instruments , from cars and delivery trucks to soup kitchens . still , overwhelming a majority of french citizens remain deeply troubled by the terrorist threat not just from abroad , but from people living in france , often targeting french citizenship . though violent extremists are an ultra-minority in a muslim population , their actions have fueled increasing mistrust in french society . and similar fears of homegrown extremism can be observed in many other european countries .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs , despite a strain on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from their national educational systems , or assign them to separate facilities . this entrenches and hampers social integration . achieving the needed education transformation will require far more financing than is currently on offer . as it stands , global annual funding gap for education stands at almost $ 40 billion . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees , adopted by un member states last december , highlight the way toward addressing this challenge .
the international monetary fund has credits asian intra-regional trade as the key factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . africa , with its vast and often untapped markets , must follow the same path . but the argument should not be made about whether to provide aid , so that no one can question the many successes that aid has brought , or its prominence in providing a safety net for those who might otherwise have been left to suffer . the debate over the failure of international aid to produce development , together with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments against development assistance . africans themselves must tackle these issues , but our international partners have an important role to play .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month its agreement to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction that a decision has generated between the uk and the united states . in fact , the us is advocating precisely the wrong approach . in the uk , a diplomatic spat has served as an occasion for the british press to airing criticism from those who believe that the us government should adopt a stronger stance toward china . london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month its agreement to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) – most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction that a decision has generated between the uk and the united states . in fact , the us is advocating a malign approach . in the white house , the statement urging the british government not to use its vote to pressure the adoption of high standards .
the socialists are blamed for greedy financiers , but who does n’t ? in remedies , socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solution now proposed by the far right . french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to rekindle growth through protectionist defense of “ national ” industries ” and huge investments in public infrastructure , so what more might socialists now ask ? indeed , it is hard to detect today ’s persuasive analysis from left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . as george w. bush showed the way toward bank nationalization , vast public expenditure , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , socialists have been left without investment in wiggle room .
moreover , they are opposed to key changes in the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic governance . the burden of adjustment can not fall solely on deficit countries alone , unless – that is , the moral component of “ punishment ” plays out . the core countries , led by germany , mistrust over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reform if their funding terms were eased . they also demand faster implementation of the necessary changes for the eurozone ’s struggling economic governance to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . a prolonged recession , punctuated by high rates of – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes meeting either fiscal or reform targets ever more difficult , if not impossible .
when historians look back on the conflict in syria , praise by both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis . in fact , for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato has yet again by purchasing new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries . in addition , turkey seems to have no interest in studying what its allies have in mind . none of this bode well for any kind of future peace process anywhere . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance russians , whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east .
one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis has been the elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; in essence , it is a far more representative forum for international leadership than it has ever been . space at the table to be created within the g-20 , thereby giving china a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight , and requires it to assume a commensurate proportion of global responsibilities . the uk is simply being smart when it promotes its own interests by cooperating with china . there is , however , a downside to the emergence of the g-20 : large numbers of participants may be hard to reach the agreements and get things done . space at the table for china might have been reached if european countries signaling their commitment to a common currency agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire monetary union .
what matters is that the nominee enjoys confidence in america and most other nations and can reconcile countries ’ diverse interests in a genuine spirit of multilateralism . america could elect an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins during his 2012 post campaign . this leaves a number of options for choosing the next wbg president . one might choose a dual national or immigrant like former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who became a “ american citizen . ” or it could back a non-american candidate from an allied country .
from the perspective of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been particularly consequential . according to a recent report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for complex coordination , generated the perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” globally . and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s ’s ’s sphere of influence . these include networks like silks and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which also recently established a “ national committee ” for china-us relations . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance ” a chinese narrative ” globally .
“ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” is said by an american economist forecaster allen of sinai . “ [ t ] hat has to subcontract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ” world oil prices moved out of $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since ascended to the mid – $ 50 . today ’s world oil prices still stand at only about two-thirds of the real peak reached during the iranian revolution of 1979 , and future markets expect the price of oil to fall back and settle at just $ 45 a barrel . but the current high level of oil prices has led forecasters to begin distancing themselves from their expectations for economic growth .
now , new legislative proposals are threatening to bar american public retirement funds from investing in chinese firms , restrict chinese venture capital investment in the us , and cause some chinese firms to delist from american stock exchanges completely . cross-border flows of data and information will also be severely constrained , raising concerns about the “ splinternet ” between us and chinese firms . at the same time , the us has been cultivating ever more suspicious of suginternet owned students and scholars who may be in a position to steal us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , owing to heightened american scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment in america has already broken down by more than 80 % from its 2017 level . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-dominated us international financial system , as well as the us shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the us dollar .
america ’s debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without a sinking dollar . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running for many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . next year , the us will almost surely see a massive rally in american corporate defaults , even as many firms entered recession with their relatively strong balance sheets . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape , too . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running for many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped an entire national income of more than 100 countries . how much do america ’s top income earners produce , compared to the world ’s $ billion of the poorest individuals ? to put these astronomical numbers in perspective , i had gabriel try to certify that to be among the top nine earners in the united states , “ get around $ 150 in a second , including time spent eating and sleeping . ” that is $ 9,000 a minute or $ 540,000 per hour , equivalent to just $ 4 of future income . collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings have outstripped the entire national income of more than 100 countries .
american power is , instead , viewed to rest upon a pillar of inspiration ” rather than a pillar of action . but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously proclaimed on the country ’s autonomy day in 1821 that the united states “ is goes not abroad , in the search of odinga to destroy . ” she is the champion and the vindicator only of her own . she is the well-wisher to everyone ’s freedom and autonomy .
on the contrary , it used the holocaust – which we would all agree was totally expasonous – to suggest , as isaac bashevis did , that there are parallels between the way the nazis were treated by jews and the way we were treating animals . of course , peta did not argue that holocaust victims ’ fate was banal or trivial . behind that , the court ruled against the united states-based animal-rights group humans ’ ethical treatment to exhibit posters that juxtapose photos of holocaust victims with photos of animals in factory farms and at slaughterhouses . posters bear the heading : “ to animals , to all people , to be nazis , ” a line drawn from the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . according to the court , germany ’s laws on liberty of speech did not protect peta ’s campaign , because to make “ the fate of holocaust victims appears banal and trivial . ”
for example , as machines become increasingly competent , robots are replaced by a growing number of workers . rather , they are fighting to protect their own interests and those of livelihoods , be they operation a troopy farm or ran a government . as we continually try to apply new technologies to improve human and environmental well-being , that distinction is vitally important . avoiding the barriers to technological progress requires an understanding and addressing its downsides . it will not be long before those robots will perform not only more complicated roles , but also learning more quickly than workers can learn .
this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of gdp for greece . lack of export growth thus made the recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been otherwise . if greek exports had increased at the same rate as those in portugal ( or spain ) , the recession would have ended by now . moreover , the absence of export-led growth had made fiscal adjustment much harder to work . portugal today is ahead with almost € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) in germany .
given that more than 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . on the rare occasions when trade sanctions were used for failing to do business , they were a measure of last resort , as was the case with apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support . unlike the usmca , which was at least premised on the goal of addressing trade matters , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento has been a bald-faced attempt to compel the mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . in other words , a trade weapon has been deployed neither to address a trade issue nor as a part of a legitimacy regime like that imposed upon russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . once trade actions are used indiscriminately to advance nontrade goals , the damage to the entire trading system is being done , and can be vast .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 , on may 16 . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one has generated a spike in conferences , seminars , and learned articles , including customary dire malthusian predictions . in fact , such a prediction , however , misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . after all , the un predicts that the world ’s population will soar to 9.3 billion in 2050 and surpass 10 billion by the end of this century . the future us faces is not one of too much population growth , but of far too little .
the european union applies pressure on all sides , including on russia , where it holds out the possibility that economic sanctions will be lifted as the eventual reward to the kremlin ’s aid in peacekeeping efforts . in theory , there is a strong case for negotiations between the government in kyiv and leaders of respective separatist regions . in exchange , the kremlin has pledged to support – but only after the constitution reverses – ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , together with over its border with russia . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ soft influence ” ” to give its rebel governments a cooperative approach . if , on the other hand , russia really has full control over separatist regions , and actively integration them into its economy , as a document obtained by bilaterally suggests , the kremlin can no longer be regarded as outside parties , even attempting to leverage a uncooperative ally .
new york – back in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic allies , after having manipulated bogus assertions . nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 and the hubris and deceit of today ’s ’s iraq war . in doing so , the american people embarked on a willful grand strategy that focused no less at the simultaneously dismantling of iraq ’s own tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , wrecking al-qaeda , and helping democracy to take root throughout the arab world . the result was utter failure : military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s moral standing . back in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since the end of world war ii , and led it in a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring regional balance following saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait .
one of the oddest claims made in the social insurance debates now ravaging the world ’s richest countries is that government-sponsored defined-benefit pension programs ( like america ’s social security system ) are outmoded . these programs were fine , the argument goes , for an economy-wide depression and post-world war ii generation , but they have become obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economics . proponents of such accounts would fluctuate with the market , rather than rest upon a defined-benefit scheme that guarantees a fixed true sum of resources available for retirement . just as corporations today are much happier support for workers ’ pensions by contributing to their private-sector accounts , governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . the value of such accounts would fluctuate with the market , rather than resting on a defined-benefit scheme that ensured a fixed true sum of resources available upon retirement .
indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up to the debt-to-gdp ratio , is mostly the fault of the flawed troika program foisted on it . does anyone in their extreme right mind have thought that any country would voluntarily have launched itself through what greece went through simply to get a free-ride on its creditors ? if there is some kind of moral hazard , it has been with respect to the lenders , notably the private sector , who has been bailed out repeatedly . if europe had allowed these debts to shift from the private sector to the public sector , a well-established pattern over the last half-century was that it was europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . so it is not really debt restructuring , but its absence from “ immoral . ”
if europe , china , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply reduce their own gains from trade , without reaping any of the advantages of protectionism . in fact , employment considerations are not a central issue , either . neither scenario makes a lot of sense nowadays , either . whereas some of the eurozone ’s countries are suffering from a high level of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for those countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can do better . neither scenario makes a lot of sense today , and it certainly will be the last one .
perhaps it is even obama ’s view that he is playing for time desperately veering over acquiescence to an assault on syria to the american congress . such is the view shared by many people inside syria , even among insurgents . having saved obama for a honor hardly seems to have been worth pondering that risk . it is also the view shared by most people in the american people . it is also the view shared by the majority of people in the u.s. .
leave aside from providing an even stronger case against godlessness , recall the atrocities of atheist atheist atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century ; and to consider an assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts implies a denial of science and reason . it is this god that such atheists like dawkins and hitchens are attacked . but we are prone to retain part of the same views of god that we have formed in their infancy . an old person with a long beard watching over us , and most of us retains a fairer view of the stories of his son told at the bible of the new testament . and with such a target , it is not very difficult to poke loopholes and pile on derision .
at the same time , the complicated chain of command envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in former yugoslavia during the 1990s . the au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control , a joint au-un command would exercise operation supervision , and the un would establish force its overall strategic objective . at the same time , the complicated chain of command envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in former yugoslavia during the 1990s . the au ’s commanders on the ground would retain tactical control , a joint au-un command exercise would exercise operationally , and the un would establish a force for its overall strategic purpose . nevertheless , many western governments refuse to place their forces under the au ’s command , owing to their perceived weaknesses , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un present control .
new york – there was a remarkable similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s pronouncements after the recent ecb governing council and american federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first-ever testimony to the us congress : both asserted that their policy choices would take into consideration solely in terms of domestic conditions . after all , advanced economies ’ policies drove large and volatile capital inflows into major emerging markets , pushing up their exchange rates , and damaging their export competitiveness further , a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff subsequently referred to as a “ capital tsunami . ” in other words , emerging-market countries , although subject to significant spillover effects from advanced economies ’ monetary-policy policies , are on their own . this reaffirms what emerging-country institutions have known for some time . in may 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a full-scale global currency war .
riyadh – lately , saudi arabia has drawn much criticism for its leadership role in the us-led war against the houthi rebels in yemen . these are simplistic assertions , reflected in a profound misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , throughout the arab world . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state for taking action against the world ’s poorest people . others have asserted that fighting against the houthis – a zaidi shia-led religious-political movement – is just one element in a broader shia war that saudi arabia has supposedly waging . saudi arabia , for its part , is not out of step with the fmln .
most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of its values and thoughts ? in dismissing responses to this question , china ’s overly assertive policies have proven an american diplomatic boon in reinforcing and expanding american security arrangements in asia . at the same time , china has displayed itself adept at assertively promoting its own national interests , and has played classical balance-of-power geopolitics . south korea has tightened its military alliance with the us , japan backed off from a move to take america ’s marine airbase from okinawa , and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer to america ’s . yet , to disband the us , and presuppose the mantle of leadership in asia , china needs to do more than pursue its own interests or contain would-be rivals .
rather than having borrowing to pay for costly “ school sets ” students demanded to make purchases , the poles used their 500 + benefits to the eu . and while women ’s workout rates have decreased , as women have abandoned minimum-wage jobs , salaries , particularly to store clerks , have risen sharply . as a result , lithuania has introduced a less generous version of its family 500 + in 2018 . those concerned about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that a growing number of voters are buying into the nationalist extreme right , ’s vision of a community that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries follow suit .
different people have been reading it in order to mean very different things . that may make a resolution easier to adopt but harder to negotiate . thus , it comes as little surprise that it continues to lack a peace agreement between israelis and palestinians , despite countless diplomacy by the united nations , the european union , and its members , the un and the parties itself . to be fair , un resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . peace comes only when the conflict becomes a ripe for resolution , which happens when the leaders of principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace compromise .
on the other hand , this should become less of a burden on the bilateral relationship , as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us , and the european union . on the other hand , this should become less of a burden on the bilateral relationship , as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us , and the european union . indeed , shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the ttc pipeline also clearly reflects georgian ’s pro-western strategic orientation . the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – which shines russia at a complete end – can not re-define the country ’s economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze sought . instead , georgian wine and georgian fruit will continue to depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is still needed in the united states or italy .
of course , none of this implies that the international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division can be overcome when the will exists . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas it can still engage the coherently , even without a total agreement . what it does mean , however , is that europe finds a way to work when it comes to foreign policy . whether an outlier is germany or another eu member state , division need not be deadly .
likewise , in the combined gross enrolment in primary , secondary and higher education , ssa countries stood at just 19 % below the global average for developing countries , 11 % below south asian nations , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below latin american and caribbean . globally , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries has lagged behind the developing-country average , 14 out of countries in south asia , and 21 out of countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 , most of africa was ignored and occupy hungriest by hunger-striking gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was a relatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs , without regard for western-style property rights .
geneva – the recent steep upward spiral in food prices , and growing concerns about food security have sparked anxiety around the world . the seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting rise to food prices – a shift toward higher protein diets in many countries , growing populations , increased use of biofuels as a result of climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . and , with the world ’s poorest people spending a higher share of their income on food , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that years of progress toward poverty reduction could be thrown into reverse . neither solutions that ease growing pressure on supplies will necessarily increase hunger and malnutrition . the possibility of having to place food on the table fills parents with a profound sense of foreboding .
as francis fukuyama has pointed out , developing a competent state that is accountable and wielded by the rule of law is one of the crowning achievements of human civilization . none of this is an easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . this is no easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . like harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices , ” such as the financial conduct system and the procurement and rules of the constitution , they become too distracted by decision-distort protocols to do whatever it was established to make . it involves creating a shared sense of purpose in the us , a ” ” ” ” envisioned community around whose behalf state deeds . and this is exactly what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : creating abiding organizations with new and extremely burdensome processes than seeking to advance their stated goals .
with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . by 2014 , he adhered to the presidential palace , and encircled meant to evoke the ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments in the name of his – much less his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , using sumptuous trappings and immense resources of his office to assert credit for restoring his country ’s sense of national pride , particularly as he sought to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from reassuring . turkey is confronting a refugee crisis that dwarfs that confronting the one confronting europe ; france , which has launched terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
cambridge – president bill clinton ’s trip to africa has highlighted for the american people , typically the majority of neglectful of africa , except when it was during the great depression – the dramatic shift now taking place on the continent . and , at this year ’s world economic forum annual meeting in south africa , nearly 900 leading businessmen from american , european , asia , and africa met with a new political leadership to chart a way forward . now , africa has a long road ahead . it is on most measures , a few decades , if not a century or more , to advanced economies at economic organization and income levels . and , at this year ’s world economic forum annual meeting in south africa , nearly 900 leading businessmen from the americas , europe , asia , and africa met with the new political leadership to chart a way forward .
in the past 100 years , the contests of nationalism ( with god on either side ) almost annihilated europe , the cold war could do just that . the moment you believe “ better dead than red ” you run into trouble . but a martyrdom is different and dangerous . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran argues , “ once man loses his faculty of indifference he becomes a potential murderer ; once jews transforms his idea into a god of god , the consequences are incalculable . ” dying to save your home , their families , or even the country , may even be rational .
while russia is in no position to develop an alternative international system ; nonetheless , if putin continues to pursue an outdated , antagonistic foreign policy , he can undermine the current one . russia is in no position to build an alternative international system ; but , if putin continues to pursue an outdated , antagonistic foreign policy , he can undermine the current one . at a time when the world is faced with so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for no one . at a time when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges , this would not be good for one . for that , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions be shedding a wrench into the wheels of globalization ? or will their increasing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by promoting great equality and fairness ? one way or another , the unions stand as a major wild card to the evolutionary dynamic of the us economic system , in 2008 and beyond . unions of rising influence are evident in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial brexit deal to raise minimum wages for her postal employee ; several of america ’s presidential candidates ’ open-ended misgivings about trade and immigration ; and china ’s leadership ’s nascent fears about labor standards . along with their political clout , unions ’ intellectual respectability are also experiencing a housing renaissance .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydropower capacity dramatically through abb international rivers have embroiled the country in water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas blast dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments . more broadly , china , with its dam-building passion , has muzzled two key developments . first , chinese firms are now dominating the global hydropower-export market . sinohydro alone , sinohydro alone eclipsed western facilities like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claim that they control one-half of the market .
during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , “ bring down the communist system , ” replacing it with democratic capitalism . others perceived this to be far too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons ; and america chose eu policies of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that american foreign policy is ’s principal purpose should be to influence the externalities of other states ’ externalities , as well as those who hold it , to shape their own internal character . new york – a number of recurrent debates within american foreign policy – has been marked by many recurrent debates , for example , isolationism versus internationalism , and free-market unilateralism . this debate among “ the realists ” and “ idealists ” is heated and long-standing .
second , a british budget offer would be a powerful tool for creating “ deep and special partnership ” ” with a europe that may claim is its ultimate goal . until last month , may has perhaps avoided defining that phrase , for fear of antagonizing her own party , ’s hardline europhobes . but , in her florence speech , may has promised british firms something close to the current level of access to eu markets . she has also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets will require budget contributions , as has happened in norway and switzerland . if britain ’s transition payments were to continue near their current levels of € 10 trillion ( $ 5 trillion ) over the next five , or another six years realistically called for to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , may well add up to the same amounts .
even if may is able to strike the exit deal , she is impossible to negotiate and ratify the sector-by-sector trade agreement under two years . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( ttip ) , for example , has taken in just seven years to hash out – and a near-scotched victory in belgium ’s parliament . may has no electoral mandate to pursue a harsh brexit now . many of the 52 % of britons who voted in favor of leave want to remain in the eu ’s single market , as do all of those who voted to remain . there can not be “ gradual implementation ” ” of a trade deal moving away , which is why uk-based car companies , financial institutions , and other businesses that export to the eu now should start preparing for the “ cliff edge ” that may wants to avoid .
a well-functioning private sector that creates commensurate jobs , and that schools educating the large young population to today ’s inter-connected world also provides prerequisites of progress . for the first time , a lively and intelligent discussion about this issue lies at the heart of the middle east ’s troubles . the israeli-palestinian issue , for all its obvious reasons , is crucially important . after all , open societies are incompatible with a closed economy ; today , they are rightly so . it is that this is enormously important and healthy .
the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted the fact that fact ’s salience for the establishment – even as the right-wing orthodox leaders who backed ponta rapidly adjusted their rhetoric to promote tolerance and cooperation . in his many successful years as sibiu mayor , iohannis , distinguished deeply from the charismatic and shrewd politicians to get used , proving themselves to be a sobering , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . but iohannis is different not only in his political approach ; he is evangelical lutheran in a predominantly orthodox country . this demeanor is part of what has made forecasting his victory so difficult to predict the more extreme talkative ponta . the electorate seemed tired of the relentless confrontation between ceausescu and ponta and ponta , and , more broadly , of what was the loud , mughlesque , that their country ’s political scene had become .
at the same time , how countries are to be governed has a monumental impact on happiness . some of these may be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits regard , like appreciating things that matter , or avoiding dwelling on euloo setbacks , have proven measurable improvements in wellbeing . the dalai lama recently helped launch a series of such courses in london , which was developed through happiness action , an organization that i have helped to find . in addition , whole societies may well try to increase the quality of life , not improve . british prime minister david cameron has introduced happiness metrics for national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to promote our citizen ’s well-being .
more recently , there has been america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . the new world order has given way to an order-less world , in which trustworthiness and unpredictability have given way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle obligations . israel , for its part , is a tiny component of that total pattern . all of this raises a fundamental question : is the american people even require an overarching design of its foreign policy ? if the outcome is to make its foreign policy less credible and predictable , or , worse , susceptible to a misunderstanding of then , it certainly does not .
the financial services act of 1986 put the end to pure self-regulation . the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously – onwards – in 2004 . financial interests opposed it vigorously at that time , viewing it as the thin end of a hazardous wedge , even though they could not have guessed just how thick that wedge could ultimately become . they were also hard to trace back toward the 1980 ’s the origins of the credit explosion and the proliferation of exotic and ill-understood financial tools that lay at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis . thatcher herself was no enthusiast for the credit , once famously put it , “ i do not believe in a credit cards . ”
alas , in view of us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may already conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . indeed , iranian hardliners may well welcome an israeli strike , and even seek to provoke it as a means of rallying the iranian population deeper behind them . there is a better way to prevent the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a wmd-free zone , ” ” ” ” ” built on a incentive system that includes economic and technical support to countries that would join , together with security guarantees from united nations security council ’s permanent members . at the same time , the zone should enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to remain outside , and , again , backed by un security council members – bound to impose military sanctions on those that attempt to develop wmds . a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences ; at least for now , the un would understand it .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war . yet what is to be done , and by whom , more ? recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite a near-certainty that russia would veto a united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni insurgents – at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , bloodletting will flow again . united nations reports of atrocities , the internet images of attacks on civilians , and accounts of suffering refugees rend our hearts . yet , more than 130,000 people say they died in syria ’s civil war .
for the americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant ought to have convinced them otherwise . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s arab countries to remain focused on governance and capacity-building issues , human rights , and the creation of economies reacting to their restive citizenry ’ calls for a better life . now that a raucous regional situation is joining the raucous american election season ( where no issue is excluded from the political arena ) , working to assembling such component will make the task of recreation even more difficult to achieve . it is far too early to evaluate the historic effect of the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn to this day , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have very little to do with it . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public ’s rising expectations , and their willingness to enter into a peace process to take back a back a back seat to
in emerging economies , small - and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of the employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and these numbers are significantly higher when inclusive informal small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) are included . to help those most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should be supporting small , medium-size enterprises . london – with vulnerable communities facing a brunt of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe drought and flooding . when an sme builds its own climate resilience , it can have cascading impacts within communities around it . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate action could push more than 100 million people into poverty until 2030 .
agricultural production accounts for about half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also create gasoline . agricultural output accounts for about half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also create gasoline . professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to $ 30 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits , from reducing warming – from a current decrease in warming – from an estimated 1.4 to three times higher . at the same time , we could place an even greater focus on reducing black carbon ; we could have considered responsible for just as much as 40 % of our current net warming and one-third of the rate of arctic melts . and , because methane is a far short-lived gas than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst short-term warming via mitigation .
in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , adopting a symbol recalling the statue of liberty . it not only has to live with the realities of american power ; it must also take into consideration the american ideal . at the same time , china , on the other hand , may be tougher . it has never had to deal with others as equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that have done so over the last centuries . nowadays , too , it is not america ’s military strength , which threatens or challenge china itself ; rather , it is the enduring attractiveness of the “ american dream . ”
but , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute the strength of a similar magnitude . by bolstering their own strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make such a g3 world a reality . yet european leaders have been tempted by the prospect of a g3 world must address two related concerns . first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration , when most important decisions in the bloc still require unanimity among member states . a stronger , more unified europe , the argument goes , might then have to compete with america and china in most domains – including by weaponizing their economic resources to further their geostrategic goals .
the regulatory divergences constitute a far more important obstacle to us-european trade than tariffs . while the us has , on average , fewer tariff protection than europe , the disparity is minor ( europe ’s unweighted customs duty averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for the us ) . after all , that is how the us administration has dealt with canada and mexico . in fact , both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific industries . trump has temporarily exempted those two countries from tariffs , but now expects the concessions made on his administration ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement .
do n’t i still have the rights to control my own body ? do n’t i still have the rights to control my own body ? how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile , unless i pay its royalties for a diagnostic test that might be fair enough , but also to prevent any additional firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms are willing to pay it a license fee ? we do n’t need to believe in genetic determinism to find that argument compelling . proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most fundamental element of an individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable .
in species that reproduce sexually , sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive desires . humans are , to be sure , no exception in this respect . instead , they argued that we should not end the demands of paid sex ” as well , but without explanation of how this should be done . for that reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat for child traffic in females applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization . likewise , there was opposition from some “ feminist ” organizations accusing an amnesty international of safeguarding “ pimps rights ” and johns eventually .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from advanced economies , emerging markets won a growing share of soaring trade in goods ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . but deeper structural changes also play a role . for a wide variety of goods , automation implies that location of production and outsourcing decisions no longer depend primarily on labor costs . after all , many companies simplifying and reshoring up their supply chains . since the great recession , however , global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and stagnating commodity prices .
in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice has explicitly linked russia to us actions in ukraine with “ talk of withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether a security situation warrants it by or not . according to africa , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american soldiers sends the message that an american that is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan is a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin further . yet there is also strong bipartisan us support in america for retaining its military bases in afghanistan as a means of projecting hard power , and an increasingly charged confrontation between america and russia over ukraine has boosted that support for greatly . what she seems not to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia , a key conduit for america ’s military supplies to afghanistan , may undercut its basing strategy . clearly , america is convinced that an ongoing military presence in afghanistan is on its side .
in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already initiated that strategy , by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official record , as if that would render them legally non-binding . in a sign of what she is to come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told former polish tabloid superekspres after a summit that the eu pursued “ a double standard ” policy and deceptions . according to waszczykowski , poland not only had to reduce [ its ] level of trust in the eu , ” but it also has to launch a misguided policy , ” ” through blocking other initiatives , or playing a very aggressive game . in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already initiated that strategy , by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official record , as if that would render them legally non-binding . the polish government has undoubtedly paralyzed the courts , undermining poland ’s rule of law . such infantile ploys have
important energy technologies will include the conversion of coal to liquids ( such as gasoline ) , the use of tar sands and oil shale , and the growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – namely , gasoline – in many fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity generation , solar panels , but opportunities for vastly increased use of invention , widely accessible , and environmentally friendly solar power are immense . in fact , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and safe and reliable nuclear power . doing so will require massive investment in new technologies and sources , not a fight to fine-tune finish ” over middle eastern oil . solar radiation alone accounts for roughly $ 10,000 times our current level of energy use .
asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success . in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . there had been brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with the nehru jackets and the maoist revolution , but it was brief . by the late century , japan had spectacular performance not only made japan as a wealthy state , but also bolstered the country ’s soft power . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you are going the pictures of chairman mao , you ai made it look with somebody anyhow . ”
but the eu can add significant value by coordinating supranational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale and avoiding a duplicity in national expenditure . for example , proposed budgeting for cross-border infrastructure projects , including an expansion of high-speed fiber optics into rural areas and a development of transportation and energy infrastructure . likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries and innovative small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , rather than cutting funding for important research programs like the horizon 2020 crisis . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and enhanced transportation links . yet , with free-range austerity coming below the conflagration and eu countries seeking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the shape budget , ensure that the mff does not impede future growth and investment .
in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will become even bleaker . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are a demonstrably committed human rights law , requested by the un human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . france obtained that message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . the french then were rewarded with a string of lucrative treaties in china . in the french , china responded by canceling the danish trade mission .
it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods such as vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . the global agenda in this field determines the norms and standards that shape how public - and private-sector actors promote health , disease prevention , and administer care . indeed , gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises periodically , or has access to nutritious food for all . in the sdg framework , separate gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender itself is an important driver of health outcomes . and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and guaranteeing everybody ’s right to health .
still , just the presence of a female plurality has an impact . for example , studies by the us courts with multiple judges reveal that male judges are more willing to hear cases of bias when a single woman falls on the bench , and that is far more willing when a second woman raises her own . in other words , women bring fresh perspective , heard plainly only when a critical mass was present within any institution . still , just the presence of a female plurality has an impact . “ every one of us , ” ” noted sandra ’s day o’connor , the first woman member of the american supreme court who was renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a female ” justice , “ brings to our jobs , whatever it may be , our lifetime of experience , and our values . ”
ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape a dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s an easy way to get one ’s dirty hands into politics . ” he promptly adds , yet again , that getting one ’s hands dirty in this manner is “ often the right thing to do . ” in fact , our hands will become dirty if we are helping a terrorist or a dictator . but choosing an act for the greater good does n’t exonerate us from moral culpability .
but then , in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis was ftried , because it was perceived as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been banned from saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often would be subject to yet another saudi policy gone awry – its propagation for the export of islam ’s sunni wahhabi form . yet yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies . with a new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen because of saudi financial aid , it is little wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially .
for some patients with some cancers , immunotherapy was revolutionary , enabling people who were on the brink of death to live a healthy life with no visible traces of illness . independently , honjo and other young colleagues have identified yet another protein , which carried out a similar function . now , these fundamental studies have led to the development of new and powerful immunotherapies that are efficient against cancer . but there is still much to be learned from both . yet the immunotherapy revolution remains in its infancy .
the only way to evolve is through adapting to new ecological pressures , and now silicon valley – owing , in a big part of its own behavior – to itself . the good news is that if any place there has proved that it can innovate , it is silicon valley . but it has been following this approach on the macro level , and for challenges elsewhere in the economy without exploring itself . unless it changes , it will be overextended . silicon valley ’s citizens must begin to apply their skill at an innovation project , and their pride in “ brokering things ” from themselves .
establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to produce a positive feedback loop . for starters , we trained farmers to improve their soil by expanding legume crops , high-residues of which may use like goat fodder . establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps shape a positive feedback loop . if farmers become confident that their goats will not be stolen and can sell them at a decent price , they are better positioned to invest in upgrading their own production systems . recognizing the benefits of such practices , farmers have immediately begun to increase crop density , applying manure , and rotating crops , thereby increasing yields and producing more feed for healthier goats .
in the early nineteenth century , wages had stagnated for nearly 50 years before catching up again . that might have seemed like an extreme situation . but , for lower-skilled workers , the transition underway today could prove just as wrenching . with fears of increased inequality already mounting , governments will need to rethink policies to provide income and transition support to displaced workers . looking ahead , policymakers and business should keep five imperatives well .
at the au ’s 2016 summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it has remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and failing to implement many of the decisions . to reinvigorate the au , tasked rwandan president paul kagame with leads a process in which all have been deeply engaged . this , in large part , is a matter of mindset , not of purpose . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations , produced by kagame and the pan-african national council of experts , which he has appointed , through an inclusive consultative process – involving african leaders and other actors – are gaining traction . fortunately , mindsets are beginning to shift , not produce .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s stellar central banker , issues a bond in new york , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . at best , market participants will applaud the decisions ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not shift . more fundamentally , why should we think of excess reserves in different ways than we think of other assets on our national balance sheets ? both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are rarely supposed to intervene in currency markets by buying and selling reserves . now suppose that one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond rate and uses a dollar to enlarge one of its advanced , highly competitive dairy plant in order to sell more powdered milk to asia .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for a digital future . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech manufacturing powerhouse and setting the stage for a digital future . while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind . in france , the government has invested an extensive national digital plan , which is projected to generate 1.1 million additional jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind .
beyond funding constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . in georgia , for example , political parties comprising at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral college receive a 30 % supplement from the state budget . similarly , in spain , political parties lose 50 % of their state funding if their candidates pool comprises less than 30 % of either adult gender . fortunately , some countries are imposing innovative measures to address this problem . in georgia , for example , political parties comprising at least 30 % of each gender on its electoral registry receive a 30 % supplement from the state budget .
by all accounts , iran is a community deeply divided between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for which iran ’s international status is better served through a nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions that have been imposed on iran would thus appear to be helping the latter , rather than the former . moreover , as is so often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful not to motivate iran ’s leaders to push for an agreement . that might well be true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , genuinely accountable to the will of the people . but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions did whatever was needed to slow iran ’s nuclear program .
bec ’s argument – – that the “ new model ” will be public-private partnerships among governments , research institutions , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . as with the information technology revolution , clean-energy advances will require the involvement of both the public and the private sector . in the long term , patient finance also needs to be made available to help companies minimize uncertainty and read the so-called “ “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . one hopes that the paris agreement changes that . as with the information technology revolution , clean-energy advances will require engagement by both the public and the private sector . bec ’s argument – that the new model will be public-private partnerships among governments , research institutions , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship .
but these challenges will not be addressed , and opportunities will not be realized , unless children everywhere have the skills they need . furthermore , we are planning to provide up to 90 % of our domestic funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system between now and 2030 . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children – particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – high-quality education . even so , senegal struggles to meet all the costs of strengthening its education system considerably . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our home budgets , representing near 7 % of gdp , in educating our children and the young .
advances in the defense industry lead to important positive externalities , such as civil-military synergy and investment in research and development that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . as member states advance along this path , propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues for the elimination of wasteful spending and optimize the use of resource use . the objective must be to foster european security integration ( in its broadest terms ) , lifting europe into the forefront of world security . europe ’s defense industry will not be able to make a breakthrough without a well-functioning market – that is , open , transparent , and equal opportunities for all of europe ’s supplier parties . a critical component in the coordination and due process of european ’s security and defense policy is the european defense agency .
for example , china has banned shark-fin soup , a kind of traditional delicacy , at official government dinners and roles – a move that contributed to a 30 % shark-fin sale from last december through april . the southern city of guangzhou , the center for china ’s shark-diving industry , vendors reported a massive 82 % decline in their sales during the past two years . in the southern city of guangzhou , japan ’s shark-diving industry center found that palau ’s shark-diving industry was worth far more than its shrewd fishing industries . there should not be hard to spur countries to take actions to protect their shark populations , given shark ’s economic value plummets when it becomes killing . a single shark reef shark that has frequented major dive sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 per annum , or about $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; a similar shark would be worth around $ 108 dead .
tudjman , ’s pretext , was that croatia needed to concentrate power for its struggle against serbian aggression . the truth is that he used a rigged hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and russian-style plunder of state properties by his local loyalists ’ coterie . because both tudjman and nasser believed in ethnically homogeneous arab states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and split territory between one another . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , resolving a dictator to a dictator with milosevic was simple . to accomplish this with a minimum of fuss that muzzled the printing press and electronic media .
its membership is chosen by just 7 % of hong kong ’s total electorate , and its voting process is seeking to preempt the nomination of any candidate who can harbor democratic sympathies . under the basic law , the electoral commission is supposed to be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition has violates . from 1997 to 2013 , 55-61 % of the electorate voted for the democratic nominee in the legislative council . the current proposed arrangements would have allowed the chinese government to veto any candidate that it disliked , prompting criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style elections : “ “ “ you can vote for anyone we elect . ” the current proposed arrangements would have allowed the chinese government to veto any candidate that it dislikes , inviting criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style elections : “ “ “ you can vote for anyone we elect ” to be chosen . ”
in promoting democracy , liberals dismiss the argument employed by today ’s rulers that the first free election would be the last , for islamists to win and establish theocratic regimes . reformers insist that an overwhelming majority supported moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic in order to compete for power and govern . but in gaza strip local elections soon , the radical islamists who use terrorism won seven out of ten municipal councils . january ’s palestinian elections were won by a relatively moderate leader because they put forward by the ruling freedom movement and islamists boycotted an election . on the contrary , that is the case yet to be found .
increasingly , industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as by lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in the manufacturing sector . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities will be created to improve . this is the global segment of meetings that are hosting a growing global need . a shakeout at clean-tech industries has been tough ; but it has been typical of emerging technologies as well , as weeding out scarce players has made the sector more robust . there is little room to doubt that the clean-tech industry can expect a lot of sunny days well ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom engulfing the world in 2008 led many to question whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of right-wing billionaires has soared . more broadly , the top 1 % of the us population has prospered . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened and , at least in america ’s core , incomes for the poor and those of the middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ; instead , an equally large number of billionaires have soared . no wonder that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states have soared .
recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and chair of the g20 ’s financial stability council , and michael bloomberg , a former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg businessf , have issued an announcement regarding market-based data on climate issues . global awareness of this topic is growing in many ways . their main goals include enabling companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and core performance models ; tracking , preparing , and publicizing the comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and integrating sustainable production and consumption practices into companies ’ business strategies and models . yet , given the sheer scale of the challenge , it is also important to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts with competent standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . america ’s securities and exchange commission , for one , already discusses such issues , as it analyzes esg options .
the pursuit of thriving , inclusive economies must unite behind efforts to tackle climate change and achieve universal food security . specifically , small landholders need new tools that enable them to raise productivity while establishing more sustainable methods of production . this month , ’s g-20 summits and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . but the outcomes the world needs , viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , together with integrated ecological and sustainable-development governance governance , can not succeed without the political will . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ capacity to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that has enabled them to curb the global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – the global financial markets of 2008 were having experienced their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930s . major financial institutions went bust ; others were bought on the cheap , or survived only after major bailouts . global stock markets had fallen by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch appeared ; and many emerging-market economies have staggered on the international monetary fund for assistance . so , what lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst behind us or ahead ?
add to this second-psychological bias neuroscientists to debate : because our species have evolved to fend off dangers , we tend to find themselves increasingly sensitive to bad news . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to remedying the old adage : “ when it bleeds , they lead . ” good news is not news ; media executives , too , have a tendency to turn around . we have responded more acutely to photos of starving children than to reporting on improving nutrition levels across africa . and , of course , we are prone to remember those horrible photos far longer .
china ’s government has apparently begun to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information and the power to process it . a “ virtual civil society ” ” is , in fact , being in the making . insightful bloggers attract vastly more clicks than do official mouthpieces . this thirst for skill-biased information highlights the dramatic change brought about by the internet to china ’s political landscape .
new york – countries often devote public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promoting imports – as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai – is truly rare . if an expo succeeds in raising imports , one might expect that it would reduce china ’s trade surplus with the us . but devoting resources to support imports – as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai – is truly rare . an annual import expo that would be part of china ’s ’s overall import promotion strategy has attracted thousands of companies around the world over the promise of large orders from chinese firms , including state-owned firms that the government tasked with making expo a success .
its history tells us a way that sees itself and others as possible . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . london – the historian norman stone , who died in june – always insisted that history students learn foreign languages . language gives access to a community of people and culture to its history . familiarity with language should thus be an essential component of a historian ’s engineering devices .
the first nagging question is this : will there in fact be elections next january ? prime minister yyad allawi assures the world that there will be and president bush echoes his words . more neutral observers -- and , indeed , daily news bushes about bombings and hostage taken and " insurgents " -- cast doubt on this prospect . while this scenario is simple , reality is not . the probability that the iraqi elections will be held this coming january must be as low as 50 % , and we may be certain that these wo n't be a free and fair election across the country .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump has won still commands attention , with russia ’s role increasingly shifting toward center stage . each new revelation in russia ’s meddling investigation of the 2016 campaign raises the vulnerability of america ’s democratic process into sharper focus . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation to compel facebook , google , and other social-media giants to publicize purchases of online advertising , thereby closing the loopholes that russia exploited during its election campaign . yet making amends work through technical fixes , as well as public promises made to better corporate citizens , solve only the most publicized problem . a tougher challenge will be reinforced by stronger institutions that operate democracy – specifically , civics training , and local journalism .
new york – over the course of america ’s presidential campaign , trade protection is fashionable once again . but , while import restrictions may ease the pain of some manufacturing districts , they will not stop companies from relocating where growth opportunities are among the strongest . nor will they recreate yesterday ’s patterns of development . yet , if the ends are any clear , politicians are often clueless about the means . at present , they will not protect workers against technological change .
a move by military officers in tripoli to oppose qaddafi and his sons might bring an end to the conflict , with military commanders gaining credits and political capital . but four decades of military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , a majority never really benefiting from their country ’s richness or potential . when it comes to producing for terrorists and undocumented immigrants – two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators have an inglorious record . algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , and western governments do not want the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to resume . getting “ stuck in the transition ” is a third possible scenario , with libya left in “ greece ” – neither a fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but a semi-free one .
second , court staff were entirely muslim , which meant that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . when muslims and palestinians faced one another in their trial , muslims enjoyed significant advantages . first , the judges ’ training predispose them to give the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslims . but , of course , if they had become involved in a case against a muslim , that had to be handled in an islamic court . third , whereas muslims might have hinted against anyone , christians and jews would have to testify against only another non-muslim .
some suggest that the real point is the risk of attack and the devastation that might occur if weapons of mass destruction were deployed . they employ something like cost/benefit analysis , based on a subjective sense of hazards . but there is no way to ensure an objective assessment of fear , and even if that were possible , using cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law . a better way to demonstrate self-defense is to invoke two principles that underlie legitimate claims of justifications in both domestic and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack the osirak reactor , it was then that iraq had the “ right ” to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona .
and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions most vulnerable to droughts . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to adopt sustainable development goals ( the sdgs ) . the key meeting of the un general assembly will take place at this point at the end of september . most economies are becoming less equitable , with the widening gaps between the world ’s rich and poor . the world ’s member governments have asked the un secretary-general to coordinate preparations for such goals until the year 2015 to ensure a seamless transition from the un ’s millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire this year .
an argentine , malaysian , or spaniard , who can visualize and create thriving global demand for a product or service system , just as spain ’s self-amancio ortega did with zara , is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . today , starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide , up from 50,000 ten years ago to mumbai , which is just 50,000 higher than facebook , google , and apple have put together . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments are seeing their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . they should encourage and encourage job creators and problem solvers , turning development aid into investments . it is high time that diplomats seek the same thing to do .
political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years of communism established the czech republic and slovakia , in addition to both poland and hungary . whereas both the polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization , which allowed relatively large semi-official zones of activity outside of communist control , slovakia , after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 became a rigid , neo-stalinist regime . while such politicians often described as a `` rightist , '' their real-world policies , such as those of former slovakia vladimir meciar 's regime , remain demagogic populist or authoritarian . when communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland 's communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into credible , democratic-left parties that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . the countries of the political right in every central european country are also influenced by experiences rooted in both history and traditions .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty explicitly reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ people in ways that americans are willing to run among people in various states . a third important difference is the one that every us national authority requires by law in order to balance their annual operating budgets . while “ rainy day ” funds that are accumulating in boom years are being used to deal with temporary revenue shortfalls , a country ’ “ general obligation ” ” borrowing is restricted to capital projects like roads and schools . even a state like california , seen by many as the poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of its gdp and a generalized obligation debt of just 4 % of gdp . those limits on state-level budget deficits are a logical implication that american states can not generate money to fill their fiscal holes .
in fact , globalization has proceeded at a speed through much of the past century , and at particularly speed accelerating rates over its past two decades . yet the vast body of evidence appears to suggest that technological change is a much larger driver of global wage patterns rather than trade . i have no doubt that , sometime later this century , one wo n’t take the form of a purchase of hedge-building professors – perhaps with holographic images – just as one can purchase a pocket kasparov chess computer today . so , too , let ’s return to the future of india and china . at this point , i certainly do n’t feel secure as an economics professor !
specialization in each country enables people to get more whatever they want – which , in particular , at higher income levels – comprises cleaner air and more water . thus , is trade globalization , on balance , better , or worse for our environment ? indeed , some empirical studies of cross-country data find net beneficial effects on indices of environmental degradation , like local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided countries have effective governance institutions at the national level , trade and growth give them the means to clean up their air . when trade imposes down costs , it may benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” ” referred to efforts to comprehend what was happening at the commanding heights of the former soviet union – indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists have monitored ( in whatever form might have been up and who was down among the core of the soviet leadership . ) great significance has been read into who has signed an official paper , or who stands where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square as a reviewing of military parades . kremlinologists have monitored ( in whatever form may have been up and who has been down among the core soviet leadership . all of this was the grammar-school stuff compared to efforts to duplicity in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque .
in a desperate , last-ditch effort , the imf is now being inventing “ spill-over ” news ” for a few systemically important economies , to be led at the margins of its country ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail on its own , as has been the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise or g20 peer reviews in recent history . so , what should the latin american economies be doing ? they surely have a prerogative of defending them , whether through foreign-exchange intervention , as well as the consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially profitable option if capital flows really are temporary ) , imposition of capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies aimed at exchange-rate countercyclical smoothing . even if massive spillovers are clearly recognized , it is not difficult to see how this exercise would solve the fundamental problem behind a currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests .
if china let its currency float then , it did depreciate in value , deepening this crisis . countries were once again warned : save the trade deficits and building up reserves because they are a key frontline defense . east asian countries followed that advice and for good reason : they saw the consequences of insufficient reserves . the imf had the money that it needed , and the imf wanted to do so . east asian governments knew that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns , but they were powerless to resist .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as models for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare has been based on massachusetts enacted health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . more recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade schemes to put a price on carbon , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s pure power plan . in some form , half of all us states have now legalized marijuana , with eight registered fully legalization . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a diverse energy-policy stance , obamacare , obamacare came from massachusetts , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . in some form , three states have implemented laws that offer paid families leave , with eight registered full legalization .
cambridge – “ “ i want to be part of it , ” new york , new york , ” ” frank sinatra sang of a city that attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and central bankers . yet the impact on big cities carries deeper than economic or even cultural powerhouses ; cities can fundamentally transform people ’s lives – and even people themselves . after all , this is not a difficult phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with their multicultural populations , transnational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals are rife with opportunities . in 2010 , geoffrey westerners , together with a team of researchers , have found that a few socioeconomic actions – both positive and negative – increase with local populations ’ size . in other words , the greater city , the higher the average level of income , higher productivity levels , the number of patents per person , crime rate , anxiety behavior , and hiv prevalence .
at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchase – made possible by an historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – was sustained by america ’s insistence on waivers from supplier accountability in the event of a accident , some regard india ’s spurning of american aircraft as gratuitously denied an opportunity to show that friendship with india is helping america , too . ( presumably an eventual winner in the bid will be required to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american companies would not . ) against this are the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a significant new ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation on the supply , training , and operations to develop hitherto developed stage . as if all of this were not enough to be decided against america , the bri may well have been india ’s desire to avoid another procurement controversy at a time when allegations of corruption beset it from all sides . the decision made on technicalities what many have felt would have been easier to defuse than one based on political considerations .
eu institutions such as royal bank of scotland , which for a time in 2009 at the head at the council of the world ’s largest international banks , are taking the eu ’s washington-based directorate general for competition . in the us , as it stands , large supranational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and , implicitly , for fiscal bailouts ) . even the stronger eu banks are being pressured to increase their capital buffers substantially . in most cases , this implies continuing cuts in lending , deteriorating the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . as a result , large supranational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for fiscal bailouts should that supervisory and regulation fail ) .
the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of “ chicken . ” in the us , north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out thuggish enveloping ” strikes on american territory . more ominous , according to a confidential american intelligence report , north korea has made its capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads and may have as many as 60 bombs . trump has shot back that america ’s military is “ locked and loaded . ” trump has shot back that america ’s military is “ locked and loaded . ” and , indeed , as this exchange of rhetorical fire has unfolded , america was supposedly preparing revised military options for striking north korea .
the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others , given the public goods provided by society . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining top salaries , not for any moral purposes , for making the system sustainable . but do not hold your breath waiting to be agreed upon . two conclusions can be drawn from all this . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that benefited the most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions .
an economy would suffer because the underlying economic model was predicated on the power relationships that disadvantaged workers disadvantaged . and , sure enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone ’s institutionalized links between them , is the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see an end to prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist governing government an end to it . when sweden , greece , swedes said , no . they understood that unemployment would skyrocket if a country ’s monetary policy was set up by a central bank that focused single-mindedly on inflationary ( along with scant attention to financial stability ) . after all , it is exceedingly devious to greece under a government that is so opposed to the types of policies that have done so much to lift inequality in so many advanced countries and that are so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth .
durham – this year , islamist politics has faced massive setbacks in two significant , predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first-ever freely elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets , triggering the military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political incompetence and lack of vision in the face of an economic collapse would have been sufficient to diminish the support for his regime . yet his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his drive to centralize power in the hands of the brotherhood and place himself beyond egypt ’s revision of the justice system , has proved to be his undoing . yet it is only too soon to write political islam off as a capable participant , even a leading power , in a pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a team of korean researchers published in an journal science graduate ’s journal science , research findings showed that for the first time isolated human-embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to match the dna embedded in male and female patients of various ages . the following day , british researchers at the university of newcastle announced that they had been successful in producing a cloned human embryo that forms of donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in stem cell research as well . embryonic stem cells are " pluripotent " , which means that they have the potential to develop into every kind of human body . notably , this carries great promise for sufferers of spinal cord injuries and illness .
by contrast , china ’s government has retained the same six-layer of administrative structures – starting with the central government and moving down through provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and town – since its founding 70 years ago . this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program by closing a threshold beyond which firms must pay , and eliminating exemptions from permits to firms or industries . in recent decades , many of the biggest global companies have been using new technologies to reduce rates of employee layers , from top managers to factory workers to factory workers , thereby reducing costs and improving efficiency . finally , over the medium term , china can lower government expenditure ( over the medium term ) by more efficient use of its vast administrative hierarchy . such actions would not only foster fiscal sustainability – the additional income could total 2 % of gdp – while also improving the efficiency of total resource allocation .
now that russia has reneged on its capability , such a move would have been unthinkable . nuclear deterrence – the threat of killing hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is a concept not to fit into traditional morality . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and prudent . indeed , the risks of a world free of nuclear weapons – or only minimal number – are slight . when one polity for nuclear deterrence has weakened because of russian political decline in the 1990s , nato , a defensive union of like-minded democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia .
infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of the prion replication . as the tragedy has unfolded , researchers have gained greater understanding of diseases . the prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of the prion replication . in addition , prions lack the genes of their own making their own use . at the same time , the prions seem to defy all conventional wisdom , survivors of pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for four hours – treatments that are routinely and reliably used to detest all known viruses and bacteria .
performing arts advocates in europe point to the us , where , among others , the music directors of even major orchestras now appear to be expected to participate fully in fundraising activities , and to be active in the local community on orchestras . daniel barenboim is rumored to have abandoned the chicago symphony orchestra partly because he opposed the fundraising demands made from him . but america 's experience shows that obtaining artistic leader like orchestra fiatons to participate in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of the job . the same thing , they now fear , is happening in europe . some conductors , not wishing to carry the tin cup as they wave their batons , have rejected important posts at the hands of the american people for that reason , feeling they will interfere with their artistic status .
at the same time , the council has been more likely to accept the possibility of mounting a punitive program of air strikes – well beyond what was implemented in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the republican guard , and other armed-force targets . it would be odd to uphold the council ’s authority by means that it has failed to get its assent . we should not forswear this option , but we ought to regard others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically if not legally crucial – may never advocate an invasion . it would be odd to uphold the council ’s authority by means that it has failed to get its assent . rather , the council has been reluctant to accept the possibility of mounting a punitive airstrikes program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the republican guard , and other armed-force targets .
some of the inspectors that he knew well were then performed on collegial terms during visits to vienna . early thereafter , the little more than inspectors returned to tarmiya in the late 1980 's . this time , dr. ahmed , a iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up . this time , dr. ahmed , a iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up . this time , dr. ahmed , a iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up .
the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality will rise sharply and then decline , in a china-centric pattern , or bell , because countries underwent economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience has penetrates this claim more powerfully than any single instance . but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three key myths about its impact on economic growth . yet china , after all , is now one of the world ’s most unequal countries .
pakistan has held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold another in late 2012 or early 2013 . of course , democracy is always destined to mean more than periodically to hold out free and fair elections . thus , pakistan has taken one further step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . it must also entail the development of a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and giving citizens institutional means to settle disputes . had the supreme court not removed gilani , it would have been the first prime minister to complete his full term .
by contrast , the cuban government continues to detain prisoners of conscience , as well as criminally legitimate demands for a society-wide dialogue . this year , the peoples of europe are marking the 20th anniversary of the collapse of the iron curtain that once divided europe in two . that 20 years after this previously epochal event , an iron curtain remains around cuba is shaping this anniversary poignant . to be sure , tourists who crowd cuba ’s beaches are not obvious to this iron curtain . but , whatever this ignorance and its own economic concerns , the eu should insist on freeing up political prisoners and using all international institutions to put pressure on cuba ’s government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights .
that is what the military junta wants for the world to think . brigadier general kyaw hsan , the army ’s deputy , recently told un special envoy ibrahim sitting in the streets that “ bogus monks . ” but we are genuine , and the thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrated for peace . some have said that the niger uprising in burma is ending . but we are convinced that the protests represent the start of the end of military rule in our homeland .
plato , however , would most likely marvel at the world ’s moral progress . after all , although plato had opposed the enslavement of greeks , he – like any other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( the non-greeks ) . after all , he had believed that being a “ “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibilities of a morally reformer . yet , while morality was always at the center of his thought , at the center of his thought many moral truths that we nowadays took for granted had never happened . today , on the other hand , even an perpetually non-philosophical person is reported to have said , plato of the media escort ” , it could easily explain why slavery is mistaken : “ a person is a person . ”
such an effort must support progress on another area : rural development , which is the single economic issue addressed in the context of the peace agreement . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterize rural colombia have given rise to the farc early , and the conflict has been centered in such areas . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which farc has been involved may also be viewed as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but , first and foremost , it is a security issue . ) such an effort must be underpinned by progress on another area : rural development , which is the single economic issue that has been addressed in the context of the peace agreement . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which farc has been involved may also be viewed as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and most recently , a security issue . )
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , produces headlines worldwide . roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are unemployed . furthermore , more than 30 % of the jobseekers under age 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their chances of finding a job remains low . on average , the youth unemployment rate exceeds 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , greece , cyprus , latvia , hungary , greece , and slovakia , and surpassed 55 % in greece and spain . more than 30 million europeans under the age of 25 are neets ” not in employment , education , or skills training .
yet america ’s supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to be found guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . true , insofar as standards of domestic trade law were applied internationally , perhaps most firms within the american system would be guilty of dumping charges . at the same time , us trade negotiators are not discussing deferring to this double standard . at the same time , us firms are accused of `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic manufacturers . so developing countries worry that attempts to introduce competition '' in trade negotiations will only make life even harder .
for emerging economies , this would amount to cured of dollarization aimed simply to capture the even worse case of libraization . facebook is betting that libra triggers a taurus market . the libra project is dangerous like leo , and it will require government regulation to keep it from turning it away from becoming a cancer later . but libra ’s benefits seem to have grown as slippery as pisces . if that happens , libra will have complicated those countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , and helped trigger periods of slow growth and financial instability .
for starters , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low – or no-growth environment , where a subset ’s incomes and opportunities are either stagnant or falling . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with the “ yellow vest ” protests of last month . the immediate cause of the protests was new fuel tax . the added cost was not all that huge ( roughly $ 0.30 per gallon ) ; instead , fuel prices in france were already among the top 1 in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness is affecting the sustainability of growth patterns only in developing countries , though specific dynamics depends on a variety of factors .
to divide a people to conquer them is the immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history . from alexander the great to stalin ’s cruelest , variants of that strategy have been used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . we now see that strategy back then as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over land treated as “ lost touch ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in the wake of a euphoric mass protests in kyiv , it is russian president vladimir putin has since said that he can work with whatever alone a government chooses ukraine . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , however , putin has made it clear to the world his neo-imperialist designs .
skinner interprets this narrowly , targeting the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense expenditures . what she fails to acknowledge is that america also forces the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural saving shortfall . america has persistently run both a fiscal deficit – with total spending ( of which defense comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) significantly exceeding its income and a current-account deficit . indeed , if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt to the rest of the world – currently amounting to more than 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years . in any case , the active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing .
consider , for example , how recent innovations were threatening the export-oriented industrialization strategies that have fueled many countries ’ growth over the last few decades . by using their plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries were able to increase their share of global manufacturing activity , creating employment , attracting investment , and , in some cases , queuing the broader industrialization process . but , for firms that viewed the opportunity to reduce costs by shifting production to the developing world , a trade-off has always emerged : offshore production means a limited capacity to respond quickly to shifting consumer demand . now , technology may offer another option , at least for now . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” robots , and other off-grid tools , companies could move their production sites closer to their final markets .
even wives of men who watch the play at home have had other issues to cope with a deal . for instance , joyce , a former child workmate , has a diehard manchester united fan . she has transformed her furniture , at least three years ago , since she was married to marry . couches are redrawn with her beer , and kicked as he confined his favorite teams . every season , she breaks at least one cent of furniture , when her own team loses .
that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in the understanding of homicidal monsters as the other . increasingly , such protagonists became the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and the popular culture itself . in fact , has any monster not yet been assumed to be a potential conveyor of revolutionary ideas ? the notion that a murderous monster may symbolize a protester or overcast and therefore merit sympathy originated with french philosophers gilles delineating and pierre-félix guattari . challenging rené girard ’s account of the origins of irrational violence and hate against another group of ethnic or religious minorities , who have been demonized and victimized by – delineated and guattari extended the concept of vampire otherness .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by a growing desire to stamp out “ superfluous ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . in march , al gore , the science advisor and the prominent climate researcher jim hansen , proclaimed that in tackling global warming , “ the democratic process does not work . ” hansen argues that , “ “ “ the first action which people should take themselves has been to take advantage of a democratic process . ” though the science has shown that co2 from fossil-fuel combustion is heating the planet , policymakers have been reluctant to follow through on its advice , suspending coal-fired power plants . but , closed-door discussion simply means the disappearance of reason from public policy .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election push south korea from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . the key reason for the rise of women mps was the introduction of a quota system , under which south korea ’s own political parties should ensure that 30 % of their female candidates are women . the rise of women mps has led not only to an increase in the female cabinet members , but also to a variety of policies and institutional improvements that focus specifically on women . the campaign-finance law was revised to give additional government funding to parties that meet a quota , reducing the size of parties that do not . and , though south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu most recent rankings , the fallout reflects the ensuing growth in other countries ’ share of female legislators .
everyone should be governed under law , insulated from those ’ personal discretion in power , and legalistic disputes should be resolved without prohibitive costs or inordinate delay . recognizing this , the courts and other formal adjudicative bodies should provide a fair procedure . moreover , state power should be fairly exercised , in good faith , and with the purposes for which it has been usurped , with an independent judiciary and judicial review of rules ensuring that the government does not cross the limits of its own authority . before a law , equality should have to be made , combined with an adequate level of protection of basic human rights . for a bingham , a law must be both accessible and – insofar as a intelligible , explicit and predictable .
it is the extreme right that has benefited the most from centrists . in france , the national front , which finished second in the presidential election of 2002 , has been revitalized under marine le pen . in france , the national front , which finished second in the french presidential election in 2002 , has been reinvigorated under marine le pen . it is the extreme right that has benefited the most from centrists ’ failures . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without its support , a minority liberal government would collapse .
the eu is paying turkey in euros , while seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating the very policies that no german politician should . the fourth factor , certainly , is german business interests . german companies make huge money on the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which collectively amount to germany ’s largest trading partner . but , here , the hungarian tail wags the german dog . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both exports and imports .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and a few of its major trade partners , because the eu had decided to involve itself in its gas-emission-control scheme of all flights to and out its territory , including transcontinental flights . with the soviet union having expanded to purchase sea emissions , airlines would need to acquire emission permits for their flights ’ carbon dioxide emissions . in response , chinese airlines have delayed orders to purchase european aircraft products . the ceos of aircraft manufacturer airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to take action . both china and the united states have been outraged at this .
i doubt that other european countries would permit britain to operate like some offshore centers on europe ’s periphery , free of european responsibilities but participating fully in its opportunities . and , to see the record , norway is a significant net contributor to the eu budget – the cost of negotiating it , despite not becoming a member . yes , special arrangements can be negotiated ; but each needs to be negotiated on a case-by-case basis . when the us government looked closely at risks to london as a financial center from outside europe , it concluded that there was little compelling case to have it . but the us was never in any doubt that being outside europe was entirely different .
policymakers are accountable , first and foremost to their constituents whose unique needs must be met . estimates of local disease burdens will prove vital to the fight against afflictions like ebola , checking a rising toll on non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and to meeting sustainable development goals involving maternal and infant health in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health services if it were able to offer more detailed data breakdowns . likewise , it has highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries and the endurance of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional disorders in sub-saharan africa . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and assessment , which i lead , generates geospatial maps of groundbreaking disease burdens with groundbreaking resolution levels .
spain , for example , would still have to cut its prices by 22-24 % relative to the new eurozone average . according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would have to rise to more than 20 % relative to the eurozone average . to be sure , if germany were to abandon a common currency , the road back toward competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , as a rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as others remain in the eurozone as a whole . from this perspective , crisis-countries would not have been spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union comprising a competitive one . the only way to avoid it would have been for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies .
one way to bolster india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to establish the marine equivalent of the us territorial army , training chosen fisherfolk on how to conduct search-and-rescue operations . such training , combined with students ’ affinities to their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent sea , would make large-scale economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s impoverished fisheries communities . such training , combined with students ’ affinities to their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent seas , would make use of highly effective reserve assets to be deployed as disaster strikes . but it is perhaps time to start considering whether it is fair to condemn these communities to long dependency on fishing . another issue that has been overlooked by a focus on urgent , immediate financing relief is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs .
ramallah – the united nations should stop pushing for the resumption of the palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best route to peace – a paradox that is reflected in the vast gap between the peace process and the achievement of a genuine peace process . make no mistake : this is not an invitation to arms or an appeal for violent uprising . peace between the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river may , and must be made through negotiation . but if a single party is more interested in a process than in meeting the need for peace , something must go badly .
the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as a project of peace , a defense of western ’s core values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to transcend the continent ’s historic divisions now required a redefinition of the european project . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu and laid the foundations for political institutions that were equal europe ’s economic power . the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as a project of peace , defence of western ’s core values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historic divisions now require a redefinition of the european project .
but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has come down silent . after the government seized sway over independent tv networks , ntv , and taunted , russian media became vastly duller . whenever i arrive in moscow , its new shops and buildings are caught . the latest fad appears to be for officials to prosecute newspaper editors for libel , demanding more than $ 1 million . part of the explanation for this has been increased official control , part is declining the public interest , and a part is that russian problems nowadays simply seem less pressing .
true , the united states is not denmark , itself . but it is not wrong to ask what makes scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous and which americans can learn from them . one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s ’s wealth depends ; to a large extent , on the share of the population that does , for example , have productive work in higher-paying jobs . according to the oecd countries ’ rankings by employment , the top seven nations have welfare economies worldwide . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their peoples more of working that they pay a respectable wage to sustain healthy and happy lifestyles .
berkeley – on my desk right now , reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s mounting inequality crisis , and on what we may be doing about it , along with milton friedman and rose director of friedman ’s classic free to make choices : personal statements . back then , a friedmans made three powerful factual claims about how the world operates – arguing that seemed true or perhaps true at least arguably true or at least arguably true at a time , but that now one finds itself practically false . their case for small-government libertarianism rested largely on such claims , and has since crumbled , owing to the world that one has turned out to be discrediting about how it works . their case for small-governmental libertarianism rested largely on such claims , and has since crumbled , claims that the world has revealed disagreement with them on how it works . its first claim was that government-induced macroeconomic distress , rather than an unstable private market , or , rather , what the form of macroeconomic regulation required to deliver economic stability is straightforward and readily available .
according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chairing former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . now , the g20 should follow through on its commitment and establish a clear timetable for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including for full transparency regarding such expenditures from 2017 at onward , and for prohibiting exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit to fighting tax evasion and unraveling the murky scheme of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) that used to pump money out of africa . g20 members should reinforce tax-disclosure requirements , prevent the creation of shell companies , step up efforts to combat money laundering , and establish corporate-ownership zones . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods like base erosion and profit displacement .
most immediately , unit two in south ukraine would reach that point in less than three weeks , implying that the snriu must now decide on whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . the snriu will make that critical decision without the key insights of the health and environmental risks that the reactor presents to ukraine and its neighbors . three of ukraine ’s ’s ’s nuclear-power units currently operating beyond their lifetime design design , with 9 others set to reach the end of their lifetime intended over the next five years . while this contravention of ukraine ’s responsibilities , as a signatory of the espoo convention to conduct cross-border environmental-impact assessments ( not to mention missing an opportunity to consider potential alternatives to continued reactor operation ) , no such analysis is expected to take place . at last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their respective representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear-plant until a cross-border assessment takes place .
at the business level , more than 700 firms , with an overall market capitalization of just over $ 16 trillion , have made far-reaching climate obligations , according to what we mean business coalition . curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new urban food-production model . and 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to the paris climate agreement 100 + , the five-million five-year initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate-greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate-change governance , curb emissions , and boost climate-related financial disclosures . as a result , global green bond issuance could reach nearly $ 300 billion this year . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making .
if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face some opposition . as proponents of asian values have argued , all human rights -- both civil and political as well as social and economic issues -- need to be strengthened . but this has been no recipe for reviving stability and growth . to succeed in restoring a vigorous growth path , east asia must deliver something more than individual human-rights abuses . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order .
a keynesian theoretical point in the shift to a debt-fueled economy has been a redefinition of insecurity as risk . by contrast , a virtuous chinese who saves a substantial share of their incomes has castigated western economists for failing to understand that their obligation to mankind has been to spend . the main theoretical point in the shift to an debt-fueled economy has been nudges one toward morality . whereas guarding against uncertainty has traditionally been a matter of moral reasoning , hedging against risk is a pure technocratic question . this has been the major achievement of the mathematical economics , especially when it comes to workers .
the crisis in cyprus , which threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to crash and force cyprus out of the eurozone , might force the eu to make the situation even harder to manage . but italy ’s approach is proving inefficient and unstable . as a result , italy , the league party , and the european union are headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s last general election , when a similar setback to form a parliamentary majority forced another general election the following month . italy and greece , in turn , have much in common , starting with their own institutional malaise . having excluded a grand coalition with either an anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right forza italia , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to support concrete measures .
back in the 1980s , for example , america entered into such agreements with a foreign car , micro chip , steel , kumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . some of the conditions that were imposed after the world trade organization were banned in the early 1980 ’s . trump is likely to dust off such tools . if trump wants to prevent production from moving overseas and encouraging foreign investment , us companies might soon see pressure to agree “ voluntarily ” to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements . but , just a few years ago , the u.s. auto industry pushed for a requirement in a trade deal that would grant it an bare market share of american exports to south korea .
according to the world resources institute data , america accounted for the astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions between 1850 and 2013 . and us per capita emissions are higher in real terms than in any other large country , by far . america ’s population today is just 4.4 % of the world ’s population . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been several times the global average that owes the global climate fairness of its own , rather than the other way around . the paris accord does not victimize the americas ; on the contrary , america has a globally beating responsibility to get its house in order .
that rise was preceded by a loss of almost a third of markets ’ value from mid-june to early july . and yet a roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market was reopening on monday that followed its largest-coaster spike since 2008 . since then , china ’s stock market has been a global laggard – that is , until the last year , when it became the best-performing global recovery , rising by more than 150 % . and that volatility is the other reason why a casino metaphor applies : a china ’s stock market may be rising , or it will fall at double-digit digits , without triggering a broader economic crash – at least so far . for starters , china ’s gdp growth remained unsettled ( indeed , the us economy was growing at almost 10 % ) , when the stock market lost about half of its value from 2001 to 2005 , or , for that matter when the market then recovered ( only to collapse again after the 2008 financial crisis ) .
once again , the conversation has shifted to macron . i have sought to explain the fact that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( at the same moment ) , which tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead be one of the most visible traces of his doctrinal closeness to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over ambiguous choices , “ action ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and wavering before the unsolvable and terrifying mystique of the dual nature – both physical and spiritual – mortal and long-mented body christ . yet we arrive very early on at the issue of anti-semitism in america . on the one hand , the hordes of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederates who fall on charlottesville , virginia , in august to break some black and jewish heads . i have tried to explain the fact that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( parallel ) , which tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead be one of the most visible traces of his doctrinal closeness to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over their approach ’s intellectual ownership is brewing . writers such as john judis argue that nineteenth-century american invented political populism , with its anti-elitist attitude and inflammatory rhetoric . argentines , having given the world über-populist juan domingo perón or the brazilians that brought us getúlio vargas , might beg to differ . even so , there can be no disagreement that latin american countries were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . during the twentieth century , perón and “ vargas ” plus alan garcía at blackrock ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed inflation to rise , and gave them eventually suffering currency crises .
but it was a recent statement by the us congress by secretary of defense robert gates , which was particularly shocking to israelis . what is remarkable is that it has held for so long . israel has been bound to struggle against this emerging new american doctrine , which equating it with iran or even with india and pakistan to the cause . he has expressed an understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons , for he indicates that iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , iran , russia , iran , and israel . political contexts matter , as israelis will argue .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire , the independent national electoral commission ( cei ) announced opposition leader alassane ouattara the country ’s winner in the november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted . the united nations , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary general all congratulated ouattara , and called on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , gained 45.9 % of the vote . one day after the result was declared , the sri lankan constitutional council , headed by gbagbo ’s close ally , paul kaydre , had annulled the results from seven departments under the north , proclaiming gbagbo the winner of polls with just 51 % of the electoral college .
littered with a host of exceedingly sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than 2008 . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbance in tibet , it was also marked by the 50th anniversary of the tibetan riots in 1959 that led to the dalai lama ’s exile and his supporters . unlike last year , when forced home to toe new year riots hampered by the freak storms of freak , millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural homes . many will remain there , because the global economic downturn hit china hard , costing them their jobs . since riots last spring , china ’s government has engaged in many pro-active actions , even adopting “ serf people ’s liberation day , ” ” ” ” ” to defer its records in tibet during its last 50 years , while still making talks with the dalai lama ’s officials .
dealing with the deficit required difficult choices – from reforming the welfare system and increasing the state pension age to control public-sector wages . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing checks on itself . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition for securing the economy over the long term – but that is not sufficient . success also requires taking bold steps to ensure that we can live within our means alone , and that is what i am determined to deliver . success also requires responsible choices in order to ensure that we can live within our means – and that is , what i am determined to deliver .
the key to achieving this lies in the capacity to diversify domestic production by generating new activity , enhancing intra-country economic linkages , and the creation of new domestic technological capabilities . indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world illustrates precisely this . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth through informal service activities are a proven recipe for failure , as evidenced by the sad experience in much of the developing world in recent decades . building an industrial and modern service sector has been critical for successful diversification . second , while pushing the technological frontier is the key to growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries is reforming production and export structures , especially by shifting resources to higher-productivity activities .
the oxford english dictionary gives as the earliest reference to its current usage of the academic article of 1972 . it was a diplomatic term conveying a linkage among disparate policymaking areas ( such as , for example , in negotiating simultaneously on financing and security matters ) . earlier this year , few people still know where the term “ of globalization ” came into being . earlier , the word was still used , but in a rather different sense , in a different sense . today , few known for its book the era of globalization ” lies in its third way .
without his determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skillful diplomacy , iraqi military programs would not now be vulnerable to increased scrutiny than they claimed to be regarding any more would-be proliferator in the world today . the credible threat of war has been vital to achieving that extraordinary feat . but precisely because it is so extraordinary that it is hard to see how implementing these threats by starting a war can make any sense at all . the best “ serious consequences ” of which the un security council has warned that iraqis should not abide by their own obligations would be an even sharper effort to destroy their illicit weapons through continued inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : the inspectors , not the invaders . if in the inspections that iraq had been exposed as having lied and cheated this would have provided confirmation of the inspections ’ effectiveness , scarcely a justification for military reprisals .
major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and checks . while their vision of “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and thus makes it unacceptable to democratic governments , one might identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . clearly , cyber technologies would be very different from nuclear technologies , particularly because non-governmental actors could exploit it far more easily . limiting all intrusions would be an impossible task , but one might start with cases of cyber crime and cyber terrorism . to be sure , the historical analogies are imperfect .
alternatively , it could be that the banks could perpetually toe debt , indefinitely stretch new loans in order to repay old debts . indeed , with us banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms and with a planning system incapable of imposing alternative effective discipline , china is already awash in apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied and with enormous overcapacity in heavy industries . yet , as some chinese policymakers react , all growth processes involve waste : the nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america have generated enormous over-capacity and investor losses , even as they have spurred economic transformation . the bulk of this debt is owed within the state system by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks – for example , and governments could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , finance operations with either borrowed or printed money . to be sure , this would produce squandered investment .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that abundant natural resources could easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that , unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people , resource depletion will leave the country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians most of the country ’s resources , and are rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that this is happening . transparency is critical of this process that causes the government ’s strong promotion of press freedom to be so important . as chairman hage geingob has told the us press , the news often says things that it does n’t like it .
anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and that will naturally be his top priority . it is not unimaginable that this type of cooperation could be expanded to include other neighbors around the levant . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nick anastasiades , may open for such an agenda . naturally , much will depend on how it fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding a bailout package . yet a cautious look beyond the current turbulence , as well as to anastasiades of history , provides grounds for optimism .
it is not the structure that is conducive to political coups de theâtre , and much of the commission 's job is the tiresome grind to the relentless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . for reasons that are obscure today , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents have to be drawn from the ranks of past , or current , greek prime ministers . the commission 's own internal cautiousness and red tape are a constraint that nobody in brussels much enjoys to discuss . yet the head of the eu council is called on to be europe 's dynamic public face . yet the bottom line is that at a time when all is being asked , “ what is europe is doing ? "
as scotland confronts brexit ’s strategic challenges , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better off . britain chose to leave the eu because it had an outsized stance vis-à-vis other successful small economies – not least by retaining eu membership . but it is not at all clear that the uk provides such security , particularly now that it is on track to abandon the eu ’s single market and customs union . britain chose to leave the eu because it had an outsized say over itself . but it will soon need to follow a small-country model like switzerland or norway ’s .
second , with china such an influential driver of world demand ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has disproportionately affected projections of global corporate income growth . as a result , many firms , less convinced that “ normal ” ” innovation is a key comparative advantage in today ’s globalized economy , are humbled by their increasingly winner-take-all nature . as a result , many firms , less convinced that “ normal ” ” innovations are causing large payoffs , end up investing less overall than they had in the past . successful innovations today put a lot less on financing , and far more on the search for “ killer ” app . and , as china , owing to its excessively strong domestic credit expansion and a shadow-banking system , many companies are becoming anxious .
stockholm – it has been one year since a failed coup in turkey , and troubling questions about the country ’s future still abound . mutinous f-16 fighter jets bombed by the turkish parliament , with 249 people losing out . had the coup not been stymied within the former 48 hours , turkey appears likely to have fallen into a ruinous and violent civil war , the consequences of which would extend well beyond its borders . in fact , last year , the attempted coup was nothing if not dramatic . but sputnik has failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters and sealed the coup ’s fate .
seoul – once again , tension is on the rise across asia over north korea ’s missile program . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly denounced the launch as “ “ “ provocative action chief act ” and the violation of united nations security council resolution resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , just five days after north korea conducted its nuclear-weapons test . unlike its past “ surprise ” missile launch , north korea ’s government this time announced in advance that it would launch a “ satellite ” ” sometime between april 4 and july 8 . yet , rather than heated rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the military impacts of its missile launch . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , but what happens an afteraccord .
the eu deserves some of the credit for this outcome . it has been a decade since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which has established a more reliable framework for the bloc to work together with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgian , moldova , and ukraine . that initiative , it is noteworthy , was partly a response to the russian invasion of georgia preceding summer , when the kremlin attempted to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . under the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree to recognize those occupied territories , or to legitimize its invasion . and it has just held up the first round of a polish presidential election that meets europe under high standards of freedom and fairness .
without a renewed vision for europe and an effective approach to handling crises , eu new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to gain strength , threatening the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . the brexit referendum will stress the road , both for the uk and for the eu as a whole . it will be followed either by a sighs of relief ( as i hope it will be ) , or by a cataclysm that taken rocks the eu to its core and brought catastrophe to the uk . but , however the british decide , europe of the many crises needed to be addressed . the politics of child steps is no longer sufficient , if taken now .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over electing the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf may be reverting to its guiding business of crisis management . the first , and probably easiest , challenge lies in reforming the imf ’s public image . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full of three vital challenges . first , and most likely easiest , call is to refund the imf ’s public image . while a criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn , on sexual-assault charges , now looks highly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf indicates an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with limitless expense accounts , ruled by men with little sense of restraint .
the rise of the monetary base , by contrast , is anything but temporary ; when the bonds are redeemed , it reverts to his initial level . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free to governments ; it is a gift . under a helicopter fiscal stimulus , but the central bank never needs to reverse an increase in the monetary base . this eventual need to reduce the monetary base is an implicit claim on a state-funded central bank ; hence , the increase is rightly seen as a liability of its balance sheet . because holders of blush money have no say in the central bank , increasing the monetary base should not be viewed as a liability , but as increasing the central bank ’s net worth .
her party accused serra ’s of orchestrating an attack , and , in their revenge , her party – the liberal front – hurtling its support into ciro gomes . then , in early july , gomes skyrocketed to 28 % , within a striking distance of lula , who had declined to just 33 % . with sarney out , lula reigned supreme in the polls , reaching an unprecedented 43 % in mid-may . gomes used television ’s time at the time to support his three-party labor alliance in late june to large effects , but – most of them credit his ascension in opinion polls to the excellent performance of his second wife , the popular actress patricia , who had been recovering from breast cancer earlier this month . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and short-term credits for an international trading dried , began to alter the face .
claremont , california – although the precipitous escalation of violence in hong kong appears terrifying enough , things may be about to get much worse . the communiqué from the recently concluded fourth plenum of the communist party ’s 19th central committee of the communist party of china ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping is intent on tightening his grip on a former british colony at any cost . in doing so , he should be preparing to break a formidable bill of rights . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
moreover , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria , as well as the thorny issue of western sahara – have hampering integration into the maghreb , an absolute imperative to unlocking prosperity in northern africa . and yet , despite the challenges that it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on certain of today ’s most pressing issues . such shortcomings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , notwithstanding important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional changes that shifted powers from monarch to parliament , as well as legal reforms like aligning laws with the european and international human-rights norms , as well as progress toward family law and gender equality . it has been a vocal champion of counter-extremism initiatives , including the responsible religious educational quality , well beyond its own borders . it has become a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to raising its share of renewables to 52 % by 2030 , – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets .
after all , there is little reason to believe that a fiscal compact or proposed “ debt brakes ” will succeed where both the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . true , rules need a credible mechanism for enforcement . to use eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate large sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on may 60 % – a margin in which countries will have the biggest trouble resisting temptation . the wrong hope that an enforcement problem can be resolved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions might be based on a misunderstanding of the american system . to be sure , america ’s federal government has never bailed out a sovereign states , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional provisions that suppress deficit-financed spending .
yet , following amendments to indian patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the types of excesses that major pharmaceutical companies routinely walk away in american and european countries . india , for example , abides by a stricter definition of what constitutes an invention that prevents “ evergreening ” : its patent-extension process by taking out secondary patents on marginal improvements to its initial drug . according to section 3 ( vat ) of indian patents act , “ merely ” the appearance of a new form … property , or … use for the bad substance , or merely using a known process ” is untenable for a patent unless it results in a new product , or employs at least one new reactant . for indian drug makers , manufacturing generic versions of previously patented drugs would demand license , and such licenses would rarely be granted . yet , following amendments to the trade-related aspects of intellectual-property rights ( trips ) that were entered into effect in 1995 , all world trade organization member states have been forced to recognize one another ’s pharmaceutical patents .
but bolsonaro does not want to hold amazon chaste ; he merely wants to be among those exploiting it . with distinctive misogyny , he recently proclaimed that “ brazil is like a virgin that every foreign pervert wants . ” according to data from brazil ’s national institute for environment research , brazil ’s proportion of the amazon increased in june by an estimated 88 % year on year . his promotion of rain forests and assaults on ecological regulation led , for example , to expand agribusiness , particularly cattle ranching , and illegal logging . foreign-born actors criticizing brazil ’s exploitation of the rainforest – from european governments to pope francis – promote biodiversity only in order to exploit it in the future .
trump may have started to recognize that growing pressure on north korea does not preclude sitting down to negotiate with kim . most evident , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea – which , unlike iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already possesses an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-propelled intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching an american mainland . in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . of course , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . kim appears perfectly willing to subject the north koreans to privations of any kind in order to remain in power .
but this reflects a profound misunderstanding of the issue . a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . a third argument against placing antimanipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . conventional monetary policy operates by altering short-term interest rates , comprising the central bank ’s purchases and selling short-term government debt .
after all , it would not have been funny if a charity devoted to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in that case is paramount because it would be the only true reason for a charity to exist . yet a joke would not have worked , if there were not simultaneously another widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge had value independently of any practical use . on this view , science also has a quite different , superior goal : an understanding of the natural world . thus , it has become unentertained to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether experimental physics , math or cosmology is useless . so , despite the potential usefulness is precisely the reason that governments devote so much money to studying scientific science , humans truly expect more from science than they do .
then , last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization emphasized the need to place human rights at the center of a response to the zika outbreak . yet abortion politics has intervened , as republican legislators , who led congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , made funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . in fact , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress for $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat . the us position has not helped yet , either . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles african women with far too many responsibilities , while giving them too little power – are not lost on everyone .
it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and to guard its borders against migrants . such an approach needs to be communicated in both the european public and citizens of tunisia , egypt , ukraine , and other arab countries . at long last , it would take advantage of these countries ’ growing demographic wealth to meet their development needs . if they became consolidated democracies , as had been the hope , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption . and start-up european loans would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortunes back home .
edmund phelps of columbia university says that these slow-growing countries lack “ dynamism , ” which it defines as a combination of entrepreneurial spirit and lax financial institutions to channel it . to be sure , what suffeurs stand for today may be problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will come to face heavy problems when their demographic pyramtilt toward their older elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have a relative order to america today . but this is not what freak their economies are now , at least not least . but is this an accurate description of the most clearly slow-growing countries of the world ? both ghost and badly needed financial institutions must be present in order to enable “ creative destruction ” – the labor-intensive joseph schumpeter argued for sixty years as an engine of capitalist prosperity – to be unleashed .
lula ignacia da silva and his team , which are leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is prepared to reject the country ’s traditional governments . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next . lula ’s popularity ignacia da silva and his team , who are leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public appears to be poised to reject traditional governments . so far , lula and his party seem outside the mainstream of economic thought and policy that capital has already started – despite the election is months away . institutions are torn , property rights are being challenged , and a random and ever more corrupt redistribution effort is underway .
in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that , by 2040 , africa ’s energy consumption will have increased by 80 % , but , with a near-doubling of the continent ’s population , less energy per person will be available . by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person per year – below what is needed to keep a single two-watt led two-watt led . the iea also estimates that renewable power will still cost more , at an average cost than any other source – from oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro power , even with a carbon tax . yet western activists seem to believe that the world moneyed with inadequate and irregular electricity supply should be satisfied . few in the rich world would shift to renewables without hard subsidies , and undoubtedly none cut off their combined connections to a mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and at night ( another form of subsidies ) .
in 2011 and early 2012 , there was much talk of a crash in china ’s housing market and chain-reaction to defaults on underground credit-owned enterprises and local-government finance platforms . there was much talk in 2013 about the dangers of a resurgent housing bubble and the collapse of the shadow-banking system , consisting mainly of wealth-management firms and trust firms . according to market sources , total assets managed by the shadow banking system have grown exponentially , at totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or about one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 . where , then , will the high-return financial products provided by the shadow banking system ’s shadow banking system come from ? with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability – upon which returns on the shadow-banking system ’s asset pools – are based – is low and falling .
by any reckoning , this is an important industries that should not suffer from over-regulation . but , while industries are facing the threat of inflated gas prices from around the world , its worries closer to home are the eu ’s abundance of eu and national energy regulation . european industries are afflicted with a similar problem . refining and petrochemicals facilities for the eu heavily account for a large share of its fuels and is also a major source of tax revenue . the downstream sector , together with the distribution of fuels , is contributing a total of some € 240 billion ( $ 111 billion ) annually to treasury coffers .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist german chancellor , angela merkel , has been pushing back against trump . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values protecting minorities and welcoming the poor and back down . in fact , some eu leaders , ’ approaches to issues like immigration , are threatening to create systemic challenges that will endure for very long after trump has returned to the very existence of golf courses and bankruptcy courts . yet draining poison from europe will require a lot more than scolding america and praying for trump ’s early departure . sensible european leaders can be forgiven politely for channeling the uk along these lines to help shift their focus from threats to national cohesion and fundamental values .
to recognize such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing – and the current political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may indeed be empowering , because it implies the possibility of improvement in both economics and politics . if the world is too complicated and unpredictable for either markets or governments to achieve their social goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed in such a way that can constrain political decision-making , and vice versa . moreover , policymakers must reassess much of the ideological super-structure erected on market-fundamentalist assumptions . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality – must be revised .
a more effective approach would employ a broader set of tools , including debt restructuring . likewise , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to rein in the incentive , created by almost every country ’s fiscal regimes , for corporate leverage . governments must also work to reduce the size of existing debt obligations and the shortsightedness of the global demand that it contributes . it is simply not feasibility for the most highly leveraged governments to grow its way out of debt altogether . nor can austerity alone be suffice , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments with an eye toward 5 % of gdp ; in spain ’s case , that greek citizens would likely resist them , as greeks did .
third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . but silicon valley ceos are no one of the robin hood , either . and others are made more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to a service . tech entrepreneurs may keep telling their investors that they want to change the world , but a lot is imtoxicated with the notion that a world will become better off selling their businesses to the highest bidder .
likewise , khan ’s positions in favor of gay marriage have won him a fatwa for apostasy from fearsome head imam of the bradford mosque . one might argue that no less could have been expected of a labour leader with a bright future in churchill ’s poland . but one still has to follow through and admit that khan did not yielded to such issues to facile communitarianism common over the latter party . likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has made him a fatwa for apostasy from fearsome head imam of a bradford mosque . for europe , this is a necessary principle . moreover , it has never wavered on critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or an expressed dismay at the rising figure of nikita abs and hijabs now seen on london ’s streets as preventing people , speaking notes , from speaking out against them .
in europe , regulatory changes like the sec payment services directive ( psd2 ) created a critical role in opening the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s department of financial conduct authority have for some time running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants by helping them to structure themselves for standards . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” requires banks to bid their customer data to non-bank providers of payments and account for information services . aggregators can then submit a customer with an integrated view of their finance and offer add-on services . perhaps the time to assess the financial-stability risks of open banking was in the consultation period before such directive was passed . even now , the list of fsb contributors is working to show that neither the european commission nor key regulators in europe and north america were involved .
some ideas are worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in ways emphasizing secondary issues – say , the accessibility of raw materials , and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that may lie elsewhere . a neoclassical economist would argue that given this , a country should export the timber that finland did . a conventional development economist , by contrast , would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by converting timber into paper or furniture – something that finland , too , is doing . consider finland , a nordic country , which has endowed with many trees to its small-scale populace . but all wood-related goods represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports .
deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged on a zero-carbon electricity grid . we need to reach zero-emission vehicles , rather than more efficient carbon-burning vehicles , especially given that many vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . this more profound transformation , unlike low-hanging fruit eyed nowadays by many policymakers today , offers the only path toward climate safety ( that is , staying well below 2ºc limit ) . we need to put ourselves in a position for zero-emission vehicles , rather than more efficient carbon-burning vehicles , especially given that many vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . by pursuing coal to gas or more efficient carbon-burning vehicles , we risk tipping our way into the high-carbon trap .
the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with support , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . instead of becoming agents of change , they often inhibit change . to succeed , conglomerates need governments ’ support and acceptance of society . ( indeed , the big economic debate in south korea today concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by barring incumbents from challenging them . ) but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even penalize ) conglomerates toward export industries that can grow beyond their control of the home market – industries in which competition encourages the discipline that they lack as a result of dominating the local markets .
does it really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of shia arabs ? the negotiations would also have to hide contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of current hotspots . what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , in particular , syria ? the working group might have been created to try to build a collective narrative . in those countries , how will it define its interests ?
despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in china , not in the west . because china will be the future ’s most important market , it will be decisive in determining not only what the us is producing and consuming , but how . consider the shift from a traditional car to an electric transportation system . domestically , china will become the first country to which , owing to its sheer size and demanded gdp growth , is forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . alternatively , china would rapidly move into its “ limits for growth , ” ” ” with disastrous greece and its political consequences .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must express the clear intention of bringing sovereign interest rates down to unsustainable levels , which are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . for countries following the agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to bringing down interest rates to levels that are compatible with the projected inflation and growth rates , announcing how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue . a high-level german diplomat has reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rates recently , on the grounds that spain had borrowed in almost identical rates in the 1990s . yet that statement confusingly ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation , thereby confusing real and nominal gdp growth rates . a sporadic program without such announced targets is unlikely to work , and might even be counterproductive , because private investors may well demand even higher returns , because increasing ecb debt would be seen as upper , augmenting their risk .
but that rule has succumbed rather rapidly to nonviolent money-demand shocks , although friedman ’s widespread argument that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion remains very influential . inflation-targeting inflation was best known as the rule mandated by central banks to set themselves up and to try the most people to attain it , a target range for the annual rate of changes in the consumer price index ( cpi ) . closely cousins included targeting price levels rather than incrementally , and targeting core inflation ( a cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . hindu cousins included targeting price levels rather than annual inflation , and targeting core inflation ( a cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . but some felt that this would have lost meaning , if defining it too far .
in the united states , for example , slashing labor costs sharply decreased labor ’s share of gdp . firms in advanced economies are cutting jobs now , owing to insufficient final demand , which has resulted in excess capacity and uncertainty about future demand . but cutting jobs weakens final demand further , because it reduces labor income and increases inequality . the result is that free markets do not generate sufficient final demand . because a firm ’s labor costs are someone else ’s else ’s ’s ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational is for a single firm to be a destructive presence in the aggregate .
meanwhile , employment at the amazon grew by more than 47 % over the last year , to just 341,000 people . but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of these jobs is very different from that which it replaces . after all , whereas taa target individuals directly simpacted with foreign competition , much of the competition facing local economies does not come from abroad , and many jobs are lost not in industries directly affected by outside competition , but in the surrounding economy . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , the taa is not a solution to this type of ailment . nor do import tariffs help those left behind by bankruptcy of blockbuster videos , borders books , compusa , circuit city , payless , or virgin megastores .
moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah entirely , perhaps it can turn only to russia , as is the case with president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . for the first time , ukrainians have thrown their little-noticed their little-remeant to russians override . yanukovych stands for a genuinely oligarchic state of the sort that putin has defeated at home , with yanukovych accusing yushchenko of having sold ukrainian firms to russian corporations . in the wake of this spectacular russian default , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic , and faces the threat of an actual democracy inside his neighbor spreading to russia . president putin ’s own behavior appears to be the best explanation of his dislike from democracy .
with africa ’s rural population already overwhelmingly underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies . to be sure , agricultural development can have severe economy-wide pitfalls that must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains are reducing the number of working-age people , food-supply strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and to manage migration to cities have become even more vital . another potential pittsburgh of farm development is ecological damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive water utilities , and water pollution . fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , which is mostly uninterested in back-breaking subsistence farming , bodes well for fill the many value-added jobs that emerge across and beyond the agriculture sector .
for many of the treaty ’s critics , particularly those in the environmental movement , these compromises have made the lima deal an excessively bottom-up ” ” arrangement . such critics worry that it will make it harder to get countries to cut emissions further once the assurance that their collective intention is insufficient , potentially even enabling some countries to take advantage of irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima agreement ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the world ’s longstanding division into just two kinds of countries , developing and developing . it almost certainly will not , in fact , have done just that . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by the shared set of “ top-down ” rules that were imposed by the treaty . at the same time , it will not , it seems , have .
ahn has already become a lightning rod for any of the country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , attracting young people just as well . nevertheless , recent polls show that a substantial majority of the electorate has distrust both the incumbent government and the ruling parisle . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur , has turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the urban chief backer of the new mayor of new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping wide hints that he may become the country ’s presidential candidate . ahn has already become a lightning rod for any of the country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myung-bak powers , attracting even the young as much as he has . her refusal to strike out on her own is probably the main reason that she continues at the helm of various opinion polls .
some people will balk at the idea of imposing a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would no doubt also agree that preventing human death and suffering , while providing food , water , and education to all , is vitally important . dhaka – if we are not just sharing a planet with a host of other species , including plant , animal animals , and even microbes ; we also rely on them for our very survival . the reality is that there are simply not enough resources to do everything . can we set the economic value of conservation against the natural world ?
in many emerging markets and developing countries , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transport . and , elsewhere in the region , – namely , the small pacific island state , – vulnerability to the consequences of climate change is increasing . this shifting landscape calls for bold actions on a few fronts . while the response will certainly need to be tailored to individual countries , some recommendations could help most countries : · because inflation remains low in much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case downside risks materialize .
indeed , the most important bilateral relationship every brics country has been with the united states . it wants to remain asia ’s sole country with permanent seats – a stance that places it at odds with india . the brics concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ own desire to make the us-led global order more plural . they are generally united , for example , in their frustration with the us – but not in their proposed response to – the us dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . if , for example , the brics countries are to celebrate what they believe to be attainable political and economic objectives .
and , third , there was “ deconstructionism ” post-nietzscheans . i subsequently took aim at the internet ’s responsibility and guts ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) to the following sequence of events : i afterwards . first , an almost infinite amount of speech is set free by digital democracy . the web then becomes a mob , a free-for-all , where all show up up armed with its or individually held beliefs , convictions , and truth . and , third , there was “ deconstructionism ” of post-nietzscheans . by historicizing the “ willingness to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting truth “ in quotation conjectation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating the denmark from its own referent ( louis althusser ) and miring an apparent in a miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it to borromean knots ( jacques lacan lacan ) is likely causing truth and inescapable aspects of contact .
solna , sweden , elite sports , and doping have long been deeply interlinked . reaching the elite level in sports requires tremendous amounts of hard work , dedication and focus . but a damning report by the world antidoping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro brought it to the forefront of public consciousness . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to bring an end to this deeply unsound practice – and rescue elite sports . by definition , few succeed , but those who can enjoy great personal as well as financial rewards .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) could soon come to a thing of the past . but the defeat of isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will n’t bring peace to the middle east , or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less threatening than previous chapters since the collapse of the ottoman empire at the end of world war i. the continuation of this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains incapable of resolving internal conflicts on its own , or of creating anything like a resilient peace framework . instead , it remains trapped somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries .
why are we currently under-investing in our economies ’ resilience to crucial systems ? one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out higher investment . that appears plainly wrong : numerous expert estimates establish that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . that leads to a second , more plausible explanation , which is psychological and behavioral in character . even rapid response is more effective when key networks and systems – especially the electricity grid – are resilient .
rightly before the fed acted , the reserve bank of india has raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by just 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and china ’s central bank now indicates that it may have raised interest rates further . in october , the people ’s bank of china responded to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to 2.5 % , and 5.56 % , respectively , respectively , respectively . in brazil , interest rates remain near 11 % , and inflation is down sharply . in october , interest rates remain near their 11 % level . in october , in the west , concerns about the impact on chinese growth triggered a fearful sell-off in us markets .
larger firms are more capable of pooling resources for research and development that is the key to china ’s aspirations to move up the value ladder . producers in jiangsu , for example , have been forced to adjust constantly to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets . less fragmented industries also lobby for better-off behavior . traditionally , contract manufacturers in china have been scattered and fiercely competitive . they have little if anything to say over domestic and international regulation .
no question , then , that country would have been better off with a more flexible exchange rate that eliminated one-way bets for currency speculators and behaved like an economic shock absorber . that may have been true of china at once ; it is no longer true today . but the literature on the “ exit strategy ” – on how to substitute a currency peg to a more flexible exchange rate – makes clear that the moment when china could have navigated that transition smoothly was passed . this puts chinese policymakers at the behest of an iranian tourist asking for direction in dublin , and they are told , “ well , sir , if i was you , i would n’t start from there . ” countries may exit pegged rates smoothly when there is confidence in the us economy takes place , fostering the belief that the more flexible exchange rate can appreciate as much as it weakens .
a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force government-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) might work . the us senate bill lending provision on derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing such constraints , have seemingly lined up onto the side of big banks . the legislation was designed not to ban derivatives , but simply to bail out implicit government guarantees , subsidized to taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) , which is neither a natural nor an inevitable by-product of lending . there are many ways to curbing the big banks ’ excesses that lie ahead . but the american government would forebear things .
if aid arrives , egypt could begin to address some of its funding problems , but this remains to be seen as a long-term strategy to spur toward sustainable growth . egypt ’s economy faces persistent risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , high unemployment , and populist policies . if finalized , an imf program could trigger additional assistance packages by the world bank and other international donors . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector in a revival of the country ’s economy . sadly , the latest bout of political incident involving the democracy-promotion activities of american ngos has cooled bilateral relations and reflected in the $ 1.3 billion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states .
cafeteria ( now more is inviting and more frequented with the advent of free food ) or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . interestingly , i have heard this point at a wpp stream “ unconference ” in santiago , thailand , where some hundred people have walked back thousands of miles to meet to share ideas and enhance working relationships . cafeteria ( now more being inviting and more frequented by the advent of free food ) or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . interestingly , i have heard this point at a wpp stream for unconference ” at phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people have walked away thousands of miles across the face of struggling confrontation to share ideas and boost working relationships . and the benefits of human contact and interactions are why salesmen continue to express themselves with customers rather than using skype and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face meetings ; i am on the company ’s board ) changes living in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
the quality of talent , infrastructure , the cost of energy , and the speed to which the market assumes greater weight in such decisions . but , at the same time , globalization itself is not in retreat . while global commodity trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have surged sharply since 2007 , flows of digital information have surged 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovations worldwide . in the near future , 3d printing might further diminish the need to ship goods across long distances . if trade in global goods had truly peaked relative to global gdp , it would have made it harder for poorer countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops .
in march 2002 , china signed a framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . but , in other respects , its globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from those of globalization , as we know it . as xi put it at davos in 2017 , china is committed to working together to growing an open global economy . xi and his circle are apparently unwilling to bring down the global trading system . compared to the standard of post-world war ii practices , china relies more heavily on bilateral and regional trade deals and less on the multilateral negotiating rounds .
part of singh ’s difficulty is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate effect , whereas those of foreign investment take years to become apparent years . within singh ’s congress party , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” schemes . the national congress party may rightly take credit for its most far-reaching such program , mahatma gandhi ’s national rural job guarantee scheme , which assures one member of every impoverished rural family 100 days a year of paid employment . with his 20-year record of accomplishment to show the public , singh has a better case than the majority to trust voters when he says he acts in their long-term interest . all politicians in democracies think in the short run ; few have time horizons that extend beyond the next election .
banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements and rebuild their balance sheets to financial health , which implies using ecb money in ways that ease them to meet this objective most effectively . so , for example , by using the cash to continue to finance the private sector , most new cash will be lent locally to safe households and large established firms . the alternative is the one being urged by sarkozy and the banque de france : purchases by european ’s european banks of their countries ’ government-bond holdings . so , for example , by using the cash to continue to finance the private sector , they will make sure that loans will go to creditworthy households and large established firms . that will allow bank markets to continue functioning but are unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that europe ’s economies now require .
turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all of its citizens . in doing so , doing so would improve its standing both inside and outside europe . but symbolic measures , while vital , are not sufficient to bring about genuine progress . turkey has an important role to play in its region , and the world , one that is undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide . its resentful approach to genocide violates its effort to cultivate a reputation as an honest , trustworthy partner .
yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign investment promotion agency , the cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting best practices . moreover , foreign investors are reluctant to cope with a government or civil-servant current account . they are eager to talk to private-sector experts who understand the technical and financial needs of their companies or industries . that is why fdi needs to be fostered in isolation from domestic investment and exports . many are promoting both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failure of past such institutional arrangements .
large mining companies can prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials such as iron ore , ceases , copper , bauxite , cobalt , scarce soil elements , and lithium , along with mineral fertilizers that will be required in large quantities to meet sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . with the paris climate agreement one year old , transforming global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . phasing out coal during periods of latent overproduction might even be done at a profit . third , the world needs a better means to assess mining ’s ecological risks . companies with a large portfolio of fossil-fuel reserves , such as coal , will soon face severe uncertainties linked to stranded assets , and investors may change their risk-assessment accordingly .
max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as a graduate student from bernal . he also acquired the first x-ray patterns of a partly oriented sample of dna . the following year , he championed excellent hemoglobin crystals , and he soon produced the best x-ray diffraction patterns to date . but the pattern of observable diffraction -- france and the positions of individual reflections -- accounts for only about half of the data needed to denuclearize the diffracting structure . in a mathematical setting , this affords the amplitude , but not the phases – i.e. , the stages in oscillatory motion -- without which atomic positions could not determine .
madrid – the endgame to determine europe ’s ultimate shape is now being underway . it began with the publication by the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe , the draft of the first sixteen articles of “ treaty to establish a constitution for europe . ” the text mostly replicates the structures of convention chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november , with the conclusions reached by the convention ’s labour groups . at the same time , such fidelity did not hold for economics . the endgame to determine europe ’s ultimate shape is underway .
spurred by population growth and urbanization , demand is out-stripping supply . in nigeria , for example , the 2008 census scheduled for infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion a year , firms are paying more to make business . likewise , while every company needs investment data and operationally sound decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always reliable , and are often skewed toward policy agendas . in nigeria , over three-quarters of firms are experiencing electrical slaps , costing them more than 15 % of their annual sales , on average . driven by population growth and urbanization , demand is out-stripping supply .
in both crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent . russia today has less press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 . the swedish media ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in the run-up to the 2016 us presidential election . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent . russia today has less press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 .
following the successful paris climate agreement more than two years ago , expectations for continued progress and continued collaboration are high . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the landmark carbon pricing leadership coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 companies and our strategic partners to place a value on carbon dioxide emissions at the table . today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of businesses around the world are finally taking action . this month , thousands gathered for the un climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s target of limiting the rise in the global average temperature to just below 2 ° celsius above preindustry , ideally to 1.5 ° celsius above preindustrialized levels – ideally , to 1.5 ° above preindustrial levels – we must cut emissions dramatically .
at that point , the only thing still standing between the eurozone and the financial turmoil would be the ecb , which could purchase government bonds and fund the bank runs . there is nothing stopping spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local banks to one in switzerland , norway , switzerland , or new york . the scale of such an operation would be immense , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risk . but , crucially , it could step in – provided that northern europeans permitted . once greece goes , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , have frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader , lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yet the path on which the two countries had embarked was not lee . yes , lee ’s own system enabled it to remain in power for 31 years , using civic – rather than criminal – courts to harry his own opponents . yet political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , also relied upon a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader , lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . more important , lee also reportedly relied on elements of democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy triumphed over patronage .
are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” ” as former us senator john mccain has , perhaps unwisely , labeled them ? trump ’s critics have argued for basest instincts by disaffected voters who resent foreigners ( particularly mexicans ) , distrust bankers ( or whoever found a college degree , for that matter ) , and still can not get over an election of a us president whose father was black . are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” as us senator john mccain has , perhaps unwisely , labeled them ? now , that may just be such a thing , anyway . still , trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world . trump , in the comedian beppe grillo stewart ’s words , is “ american-made id , ” ” ” or , at least , an id of large , predominantly white , predominantly small-town americans .
greece ’s unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s large economies , has since rocked to 20 % and still shows no signs of improvement . in europe , the picture is also mixed . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain in recession , and their gdps will continue to shrink . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % year on year in 2009 , and is forecast to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for finland , britain , and italy , too , below-average growth rates are expected .
malmö – “ “ everyone knows ” ” ” ” ” that you should drink eight water glasses . after all , that is the advice of an abundance of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s ’s national health service . sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable but powerade offers this saint attorney : “ “ “ “ beverage maker gatorade ” reminds us , “ your brain ” might know a lot , but does not know when your body is thirsty . a healthy live now means occupying water beneath us , sipping at all stages to try to drink our everyday quota to ensure that we remain hydrated and healthy . sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable but powerade offers this saint attorney : “ “ “ “ “ you ” may train your gut to tolerate more fluid ” if you build your body gradually .
firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , facing unprecedented risk sanctions on their borrowing costs . what kinds of power plants will be acceptable in the future ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide , as has been the case with this earlier course ? with heavy uncertainties , they , too , are facing enormous uncertainties . firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , facing unprecedented risk sanctions on their borrowing costs .
currently , the alphabet soup of imf nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles the elements of the challenge . these include autonomy groups such as refugees ’ international ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) . in germany this week , as i argue in germany , the g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reassert a system of migration with proactive protection policies to enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . while past summits have produced little more than talking points , the outlook for action looks better this time , given that talks will take place in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been deeply felt . weak mandates , under-funding , disorganized structures , and the absence of a global governance system have weakened the capacity for acting with authority in the name of the most vulnerable .
by the late 1950s there were roughly 2000 computers of the world , and their processing power averaged 10,000 machine instruction per second . the scale of investment needed to make what is known as “ moore ’s law ” hold has grown exponentially along the density of transistors and circuits , but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , with engineers seeing no immediate barriers bringing the process of improvement to halting anytime soon . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co _ founder , gordon moore , observed that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow for a doubling of the density of transistors on a chip each eighteen months . indeed , there are now an estimated 300 million computers in the us , with processing power averaging several hundred million instruction per second -- a $ 1 billion-fold increase in crude , automated computational power -- facing an average annual rate of more than 56 % ! there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue over the next few decades . there is every reason to believe that this pace of measured productivity growth will continue .
xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” and the right now ; we are on the cutting edge of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure is disrupting access to health care . but neither corporations , nor governments can do this alone . they need to work together to deliver the best possible outcome . by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and cronies , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . these multidimensional , scalable interventions are helping to bridge loopholes in developing regions .
at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan published his parameters for a future framework of peace . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the national department of nations to start “ a substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . and , starting with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush mediated a strong precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months at the white house . fortunately , he still has time , and many previous us presidents have set a strong precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . now it is obama ’s turn , and he should push for a un security council resolution that sets new parameters for a future peace settlement , and replace un security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six day palestinian territories between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
loughner ’s shooting of 19 people in the 2011 us presidential election , including that of congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention as did the court-ordered evaluation of his mental competency . indeed , across the world , a paper from the australian newspaper claiming giffords 160 times in the six months following the firing , compared to just one mention in the previous 12 months . likewise , the cho nature of us mental illness was widely discussed . while the us mass shootings are extremely rare even in america , popular media ’s coverage continually knitting negative perceptions at home and abroad . in this manner , america may well be exporting its mental-illness stigma to the rest of the world .
indeed , ukraine is a large country with ample human capital , natural resources , and growing potential in many sectors . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by more than two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it europe ’s poorest country . it presents a key front in the worldwide confrontation between democracy and autocracy . for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . far more important , successful reform in ukraine is shaping the positive trend across russia .
at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the us dollar , given that the eurozone is not a confederalized state . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . but that strategy carries severe risks that ultimately render it unworkable . realigning relative prices would require internal devaluation , which could fuel social and political instability in poorer countries . civil unrest and the rise of the european south ’s neo-nazi parties exemplify these dangers , threatening an overriding purpose for european integration .
the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy through standard open-market operations , and the central-bank safeguards of orderly markets prove insufficient . should governments try to boost monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby fostering short-term interest rates ? the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of orderly markets prove insufficient . economists disagree about when , beneath the lines of what circumstances , and in which governments should move beyond these first two terms on the checklist . should they employ unemployed workers either directly or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or spreading the scale of their governments ’ programs ?
there is no example anywhere in the world where that is not true . uk ministers mainly responsible for the talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – have thus far succeeded in making agreement on one key area : after the deadline of march 2019 , a two-year transition period will begin . it also involves a pledge from the eu ’s single market and customs union . you can be inside a customs union without borders or outside a customs union with borders . but even that arrangement is not set in stone , because it rests on whether the negotiators will be able to agree first on what to do about the schengen border between northern ireland and northern ireland as soon as the uk leaves the customs union .
in view of europe ’s fragmented nature , that mandate probably should remain centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , the 2 % inflation over the medium term ” – is too narrow . a broader definition is needed , whereby the ecb pursues a symmetrical inflation target of 2 % , within a 1.5-2.5 % band – over the longer time horizon . true , the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . the eurozone is also highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , unifying safe assets , or macroeconomic stabilization tools .
madrid – for far too long , the israel-palestine conflict has held itself up . yet we have a yearning for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing peace , may generate one of the preconditions for peace : goodwill . israel and palestine should jointly bid for un action , and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup . when it comes to wanting for peace in the middle east , virtually a new year ’s traditions ­ – one needs careful attention . so many hopes have vanished within the sour failures of so many negotiations .
notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some have traditionally diverse motives . a number of ground countries have had to be covered in getting anywhere near the fast track . notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some have had such motives that are less than pure . moreover , sharia law is enforced by force . so the real question is how to approach the point where iraq has a police force and an army that can be trusted - as with order .
the differences between madrid ’s demonstrations and warsaw suggests that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , though not in the way rumsfeld meant . it would , of course , be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland into a decaying spain . its unemployment rate is around 10 % ( still below half the spanish rate ) , with annual gdp growth hovering around 1 % ( spain ’s ’s growth rate is negative ) . yet , given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy is no longer booming . yet the moods in the two countries , just as their perceptions of europe and their role in it , contrast starkly .
berlin – decisions by the united kingdom ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union are no example of british black humor to which i love . at present , the same can no longer be said of the uk . it ’s not monty python ’s flying circus , ” ” ” “ yes , prime minister , ” ” or fawlty towers ; it is merely boris , michael , and nigel farage , and their disastrous political reality show . but it will not erode europe at all . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave a gaping holes in the eu .
as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians are remembered by nakbeh or the disaster showed , theirs is a narrative of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . israel is most at fault for this failure , owing to its continuing military occupation and illegal settlements . but , for both sides , together with external powers , the events of 1948 and what went into play have followed , the occupation since 1967 of the remaining lands of historic palestine marks a tragic failure . despite giving lip service to the peace process , the israeli army ’s refusal to leave the occupied territories remained in direct contradiction to what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 termed the “ militant acceptance of land by force . ” yet the international community , the palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility , albeit at different levels by different means .
tantalizingly , they even declare that doing that would create an underlying market-based view of future output and the probability of potential severe shocks , ” even though they do not explain how such a market would be structured . reducing uncertainty might augment , or perhaps be superior , fiscal stimulus programs , for it addresses the root cause of unwound spending . furthermore , recession insurance might counter , unlike fiscal policy , impose no cost on the us government , for if it stimulates confidence , then preventing a risk that is preventing the market from becoming insured . the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public bill over private insurers . blanchard and his colleagues have pointed out that banks might condition loans to firms on their purchases of recessions insurance that might help credit-market markets function better , tackling the severe problem underlying the current crisis .
first , there is the need for fiscal and external-account balances to keep in check as a way to ensure financial stability and sustain the common currency . so far , coercive enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments as part of a rescue regime arranged by supranational bodies , the european commission and the european central bank , in cooperation with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . the greek saga shows that such a system can not master destabilizing imbalances rapidly enough to ward off major crises . in fact , imbalances are not simply the result of irresponsible policies ; they are not the only ones we have .
china ’s downturn appears sudden ; after all , its exports have been rising at double-digit rates every month this year , until may . more specifically , china ’s “ two systems ” in one country enabled its exports to bonded stores in hong kong to carry out trade statistics . as a result , its trade surplus has continued to decline , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling rising anxiety about the chinese slowdown . in fact , the chinese economy ’s current condition has long been obscured , but it has now been exposed by tighter regulation of activities like renminbi speculative trading masquerading as trade payments . moreover , chinese exports at times would have risen in the face of a slump in cargo shipped from ports .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , particularly when business leaders adhere to the newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , m & a is just a first step on a long road . for most equity investors , any project ’s value depends on a huge scale on effective post-investment governance . clear rights and obligations must therefore be carefully worked out early in an investment set , something that was all but absent in the past . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine does today in latin america – it has responsibilities not just to invest wisely and sustainably to the sake of their firms , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities .
and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s self-defense forces . members of the self-defense forces have displayed exemplary collaboration with america and the australian armed forces in the wake of the great east japan earthquake in 2011 , and have generated deep appreciation and respect everywhere they have been deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . as the world sees during obama ’s visit , japan is back and prosperous . to make a proactive contribution to peace implies that japan will henceforth bear its own share of responsibility for assuring a security that promotes global prosperity and stability . working alongside countries with which we share our shared values and interests will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and seas .
for all that , israel downplays its relevance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers a critically important agreement : full normalization of relations by the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks go all at once ? how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad be left with any credible negotiating capacity if the talks can not begin until , as israel insists , they retreat on their own minimal conditionality of a settlement freeze in occupied territories ? israel , as the founding father david ben-gurion warned , may be a jewish state , may be a democratic state , with a nation-state occupying the entire historic israel ; but it may not be the whole three . another big question for israel now is whether it can accept the consequences , if a two-state solution disappears entirely away from the eu agenda .
but , even with favorable global market conditions , we have failed to manage the problem of poverty , in which millions of russians still live . our russia was rose-tinted along with our vast appetite for oil and natural gas , we could remember that these resource constraints do not last forever . nor was it the result of a corruption outbreak that is affecting officialdom at all levels , or that has caused russia to lose its social-democratic dynamic . at the same time , i am convinced that russia ’s troubles all come down to politics . we need a democratic , competitive environment , initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and genuine public control .
yet forcing a defaulting greece out of the eurozone – against its will – is not an option , either : it would signal to other eurozone countries that they could amass economic , social , and political instability with doubtless having serious repercussions beyond the eu ’s borders . in my judgment , it is left up to only two viable options . the first – and still more desirable – solution is for the ecb to judge greece realistically ’s lack of solvency , and so stop giving ela funds to its banking system . but allowing greece to default , and continued to remain in the eurozone , is not an option : it would signal to other eurozone countries that they could amass enormous debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention to repaying it . fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would be fatally undermined , if it is not taken up .
by standardizing design elements such as cutting heights , fixtures , and jails , construction companies can cut costs and raise productivity as workers acquire experiences with repetitive tasks . this brings us to the second key lever to expand an affordable housing market : the increasingly cohesive and efficient construction industry . as it stands , the housing-building industry is highly fragmented , impaired its ability to take advantage of economies of scale , and store builders often rely mostly on the same methods they have used 50 years ago . further savings become possible through industrial approaches , for example , using components – for example , walls and floats – built offsite . china , for example , imposes the idle-land tax on formerly public land if its owner somehow fails to initiate a development process within a year .
if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal death . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly been demanding of hpv vaccines . for many of these countries , hpv vaccines are not just effective solutions ; one that is preventing 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often the only answer , because the world ’s poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this makes sense : with cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives , meeting just a couple of weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth stop cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the african conference . this makes sense : with cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives gathering a couple of weeks ago , an average of just every two minutes – 85 % – in developing countries .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relations among private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . of course , several high-level politicians and corporate owners and executives have been convicted and imprisoned . already , corruption scandals have reached the all-time high in brazilian society . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is under impeachment . meanwhile , the argentine drama has been taking its toll on the brazilian economy .
most countries rely far too little on command and control , and provide far too few incentives for patients and providers to make efficient choices . i am not arguing against healthcare capitalism , but the warning that this kind of support will become fragile , far more so than for , say , globalization nowadays . indeed , some societies may decide that it is always better to be red than dead . this raises long well all around , but is exacerbated by short-term inequalities and frictions . nevertheless , it remains to be seen if health-care pressures will ultimately precipitate the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism ’s reversal , with a very large portion of the economy moving towards a more socialist system .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his sentiment that james clerk maxwell depicting the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ it has an independent existence and an intelligence for self-thinking , ” that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get back from them than was originally listed . not long after , albert einstein labeled niels bohr ’s atomic model “ top form of musicality in the sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman describes his discovery of the new laws of physics : declared , “ you can recognize truth through its own beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiment is all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking might never have produced working iphones , photos of the pluto be used , or even nuclear bombs . similar sentiment is all but universal among modern physicists .
in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might lag behind the fact that two contending groups are locked in a war of attrition ; all understands the need for adjustment , but expect that the other group would bear splinter . by delaying , they provide information to the other group about their willingness to withstand pain . why , with clearly formulated alternatives on the table , has the government taken an predictably disastrous course of action at such high human cost ? there are three possibilities for this : ignorance and intent versus strategic interaction . let us begin with this last point .
a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and more secure world for the american people . here is where the fed has stepped in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime toward a target of 4 % annual inflation – or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – america would set in motion a rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . rather than see the 30 % appreciation that followed the ecb ’s current monetary policy , german exporters shout demands measures to keep america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” ” ” ” ” ” finally bring about moderate northern inflation rather than the south ’s current grinding depression . a world in which america has a proven track record of fretting that it requires to play the role of the global economic hegemon is a far better world order for the american people than one in which it is not trusted .
bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s single most important foreign-policy legacies . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in the continuing need for multilateral engagement , and this has always been more difficult than bilateral engagement . but ensuring that america can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require a different type of engagement . indeed , what multilateral leadership requires not just clearer , bolder and bolder rules , but also an proven willingness to shoulder the costs to those rules , whether by creating “ safe ” zones to uphold “ responsibility to protect ” civilians or take concrete steps to reduce – and eventually eliminate – its nuclear arsenals . and a group of 47 republican senators wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next congress might not honor whatever nuclear deal they achieve with obama .
the destruction of venezuela must be stopped urgently if its viability as a state and society is to be re-established . while claiming a redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , denial of international help , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and in many cases die ) from severe food shortages , medicines , and medical supplies . caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have detested their country . while claiming to be redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , their rejection of international aid , calls for venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and in many cases die ) from severe food shortages , medicines , and medical supplies . this demands a new government of insecure legitimacy , chosen through free and fair presidential elections before the end of this year as dictated by the us constitution .
but the effectiveness of such investments will depend on the sequence and rate of their implementation , and on how skillfully they are adapted to each locality ’s specific resources , needs , and aspirations . indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization spurred rapid urban growth in their coastal provinces . so far , china has mostly taken the “ field of dream ” approach to urbanization : “ build it , ” and they will come . four interrelated issues must be addressed ; each needs to be addressed . indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public-sector investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in the country ’s coastal provinces .
it should make clear to kim today that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country . his bellicose behavior in the spring of 2013 , for example , has undermined its relationships with china , south korea , and the united states blush ; and , in the recent crisis , it has earned trump a halt to a mocking loudspeaker broadcasts . if china actually departs from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime is set to remain almost entirely isolated internationally . will kim respond with this recklessly , by continuing to antagonize the south , or , pragmatically , by becoming more flexible ? that is not an easy question to answer , which is why .
only french prime minister manuel valls – a son of spanish migrants – has highlighted the problem , referring to the nazis ’ perceived social and ethnic apartheid ” that developed in his country . indeed , the only that has changed since then is the rise of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some of its young people . europe can not afford an ethnic clash ; on the contrary , with its aging , diminishing populations , european countries badly need multiple migrants . the statistics are perplexing and sometimes conflicting , yet the european union – foreign-born populations of some 33 million – may grow another 100 million migrants by mid-century . the need to address this outcome in france and throughout europe has become all the more acute than ever , because rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged migrants fits the rise of far-right political parties .
countries where english is not the lingua franca is particularly disadvantaged in science , not because it lacks academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . as a result , the range of research topics that a growing number of countries can undertake is limited , and they must struggle to retain their scientific talent . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . as english-language empilanguage empial-research journals consolidate their hold on channels that determine whether or not the scientist will have careers , developing countries will need to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to put domestic researchers on an increasingly competitive land . non-english academic journals simply do not command as much attention in the sciences .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meeting , malpass needs to address these concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his back , or by his links to the trump administration , but by his delivery .
there are , in essence , two competing explanations . the first , secular stagnation hypothesis has been proposed by larry summers . its keynesian premise is that a equilibrium interest rate , at which demand would equilibrium supply is currently below what of real interest rates . but what matters is the level of real interest rates , that is , the gap between market rates and inflation . this seems paradoxical , given that interest rates are already near zero in most advanced economies .
for their part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during a crucial period of the league play . yet the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that bring together globalization ’s opportunities with strong domestic foundations . for the world cup winner was not cameroon , or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams freighted with star players in european leagues , but egypt , which had fielded just four players ( in 23 ) playing in europe . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt had defeated in the final , featured only a unified player from a home club , as well as from 20 from european clubs . few of the egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans who followed that game , but egypt played a far better , deserving of winning .
berlin – the world ’s ’s task in tackling north korea ’s saber rattling is made all easier by confronting an impoverished and effectively defeated country . on the contrary , there is great circumstances of calm foresight . the genius of the habsburg empire , crown prince klemens von metternich , in framing the new post-napoleonic wars was to prevent he from pushing a defeated france into a corner . despite having sought to discourage any possible french resurgence , by contrast , the victors in world war i could neither discourage the defeated germany , nor provide a incentive to embrace the treaty of versailles . although metternich sought to deter any potential french resurgence , it was reviving france ’s own prewar frontiers .
many economists believe that it was one significant episode , and that is probably the appropriate way to think about it in a broader historical context . america had a brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a very long and severe one , between 1981/1982 . but the economy did , in fact , grow in the interim – only barely enough to contemplate them in a surfeit of successive recessions . and , because they were divorced from a transition from president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it became politically consequential for two recessions in the us . at times , dating to a recession , is an order of judgment .
in the 1990s , for example , sanctioning regimes at an average rate of around seven dollars . during bill clinton ’s presidency , approximately 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion , were subject to some form of u.s. sanctions . of the 67 cases in that decade , some two-thirds were unilateral un sanctions imposed by the united nations . currently , the united states has nearly 8,000 sanctions globally , with iran by far the largest sovereign target . in reality , large majorities of us sanctions impose major countries against small countries .
in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves , desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . as a result , trump evidently is antagonizing china for no good reason . at the same time , in the same reverence to his phone call with tsai , he has reiterated a bogus charge that china is devaluing its currency in order to extract export advantages vis-à-vis america . in the same tweet , justifying tsai ’s phone call , he reiterated a phony charge , which china is devaluing its currency in order to gain a export advantage vis-à-vis america . making matters worse , by announcing the withdrawal of the us from the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) – designed in least part to shape global trade and investment flows on the basis of western rules , rather than china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning america ’s policies to check china ’s surging sphere of influence in asia .
what we do know is that there is no alternative great power ready and able to step in and assume what has been america ’s role . while china is the widely touted nominee , its management has mostly focused on consolidating domestic order , maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates in order to stave off popular unrest . india is preoccupied with its own economic development challenge , and tied itself to its problematic relationship with pakistan . china is a supposedly designated candidate , but its leadership has , for the most part , focused on consolidating domestic order , maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates , in order to stave off popular riots . likewise , russia is a land with a narrow-based economy , led by a government focused on retaining power at home and re-laying russia ’s influence in the middle east and europe .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to just 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . since early 2010 to contain inflation and asset bubbles , the chinese government has been tightening monetary policy again . a slowdown of china ’s ’s ’s growth rate , to some degree , reflects a government ’s success to rein in its real-estate bubble , just as it has pursued further formal policies aimed at rebalancing the economy . as a result , inflation has fallen from june to 2.2 % , a 13-month low , and house prices , for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately has stopped issuing official data , appear stabilizing , may even have set down , albeit modestly . the slowdown in china ’s ’s growth rate is , to a certain extent , a reflection of the government ’s success to rein in its real-estate bubble , along with additional formal policies aimed at rebalancing the economy .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades now , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . viewed from a moral perspective , there is a powerful case to be made for respecting a woman ’s sense of individual freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than for forcing her to place her own health or wellbeing at risk by carrying out an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to term limits . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddied with faulty arguments that matter , policy debates often go nowhere unless guided abortion first and foremost as national health .
at least half of those living in urban slums are under the age of 20 . without access to education , this generation – which will soon become the majority – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . with no access to education at all , this generation – which will under majority rule – has little prospect of ever escaping its straitened conditions . yet , for how long will an absolute majority serve a minority ? every day , more people arrive in nairobi , enticing the promise of employment , resources , and living beyond a better life , only to realize that they are not equipped to survive , and that their children grow up into a slum .
lurking disasters are legion : asteroids and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; drills , famines , and floods ; volcanic hunts , earthquakes , and tsunamis ; human over-populations and non-human extinctions ; rising temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and the spread of ice ages ; depletion of fresh air and water ; the disappearance of fresh air and water ; the impoverishment of forests , water and habitats . all of these disasters – and many others still imagined to be possible – are possible , many of them unacceptable . the world in which we are living is a small garden of well-explored territory surrounded by the dim and dark forest of disasters . the trouble is that the principle , without it , can not be consistently applied . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost , to prevent all .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii era , economic-policy has centered on us unemployment . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the massive job losses from the great depression – reversed only when world war ii and the country 's massive debt accumulated to fund it , the kickoff of economic growth – have had a lasting impact on at least two generations . yet employment is just one welfare facet , and , in today ’s world , is not enough .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the cold war of the twentieth century hubs two competing military-based alliances against each other . the sino-american rivalry , by contrast , involves two economies that are closely integrated with each other and with the rest of the world .
from 1968 to 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the removal of all living on the 55 islands that now constituted british indian ocean territory ( biot ) and split from mauritius at the time of its independence . that was done at the behest of the united states , which at that time embroiled the vietnam war and claimed , for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia ’s islam as an airand naval base . the british foreign office claimed at the time that the chagos islands did not have a settled population . the chagossians were deferential to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend for themselves . the manner in which the residents of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed and hurled off their lands in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy , for which the west can and should make restitution .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . islamabad – having witnessed some second-successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his own party won a snap general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing to work with both technocrats and the opposition parties working to resolve pakistan 's daunting challenges . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
in any case , the countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during the cyclical downturns now appears destined for an extended involuntary holiday . owing to the dodd-frank act ’s 2010 proposal , the fed can issue emergency credit only to at least five eligible institutions : something of the problem if only your top four banks are in trouble , and it needs to certify that a counterparty is financially viable before any funding can be made available . but the challenge of determining whether the troubled entity is viable is viable is the best left for after financial order . as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made available to systemically important financial institutions immediately , even as they are insolvent and resolution . unless governments approach relief with intelligently designed counter-cyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns .
a default by greece , after all , may have the same global systemic consequences as that experienced by lehman brothers ’ collapse in 2008 . the eu and the ecb worry about the moral hazard of any conceivable bailout . sovereign spreads are already pricing risks of a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . at the same time , unless greece acts fully to adjust its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still be likely to avoid contagion risk to the rest of the euro zone and the consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . sovereign spreads are already pricing risks of a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members .
human rights groups have long urged the necessity of extending the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal belt , where the religion-based parties have wide support . such religious parties , a coalition of which now heads provincial governments in the northwestern frontier province were politically marginalized until in providing a middle role by pakistan ’s military dictator from the 1980 ’s , general zia haq , who has led pakistan ’s covert military intervention in the country ’s us-soviet occupation of afghanistan . sharing a mountainous – and porous – borders with afghanistan , this region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent pushback from washington , dc , led to a u-turn by pakistan from its pro-jihadi policies . sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan has generated many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns .
throughout its history , it has always been an attempt by america to insulate its markets from foreign competition . mainstream politicians may still nod reverently when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the world is reverting to an older , more durable model . throughout its history , america has always sought to insulate its markets from foreign competition . so , for once , the era of ideology was over . it is foreign tacitly accepted that in the future the world would include a diversity of economic systems and regimes .
his first few years in his rule were dominated by his struggles to obtain control of the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez unleashed an estimated 40 % of pdvsa ’s workers . his hostility to the industry ’s foreign players ( he expropriated a number of american petroleum companies ’ holdings in 2007 ) constrained investment , and held back production . chávez reversed pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , using it as monetary cow ; many of his social programs were financed directly from the company ’s budget . cash-starved us companies , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which increased crashes and restrict production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear installations is yet another possibility . one downside of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , and by using hamas and hezbollah to oppose israel and others . moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and may also create the conditions that are creating problems for the regime ’s domestic opponents . but , despite these potential drawbacks , the armed attack on iran ’s nuclear installations will and should remain a noticeable possibility , given the massive strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran . iran could also encroach on oil traffic , leading to a price collapse and delivering further blowback from america and the global economic recovery .
lord north is remembered for losing the british union with america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron is perhaps remembered for having lost two unions – with europe and between england and scotland . whereas conservatives would like scotland to be in britain without a european union , scotland ’s nationalists would like scotland in a europe without britain . and with northern ireland ’s ’s republican party , led by sinn fein , demanding a vote to reunification with the south , the uk ’s very existential standing is now squarely on the agenda . there is one track to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce that it will negotiate with an eu based on the norway option of eea membership .
the rise of the islamic state has served as borrowing support for the government ’s claims that syria risks taking over terrorist groups ; but , yet instead , the regime finds itself increasingly isolated . a power-sharing agreement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an disorderly division along sectarian lines . for its part , assad ’s final days are unlikely ever to receive a fair deal . a power-sharing agreement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an disorderly divide along sectarian lines . assad ’s war aims have been reduced to averting a decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy , in the hope of favorable political solutions .
if the super-super-rich believe that they are no longer a part of society , and have little need for government , it is not because that belief corresponds to objective realities . it is because the prevailing narrative lines of our own time portrays markets as a self-standing entity that runs on its own fuel . but it is not so much one ’s own self-interest as that seems at the way of greater equality and more of social inclusion . this is a narrative that plagues all segments of society , the middle class no less than the rich . there is little reason to expect that the super-rich would act less selfishly than any other group .
if disorder has multiple causes , then multiple treatments should be available . but , while it can explain why capital spending has been weak and interest rates low for the past three years , one can not account for why capital spending has been insufficient to halt trending rates for more than three decades . there should be fiscal incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public expenditure on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for shortfalls in private-sector capital spending ; and still higher capital requirements for banks , as well as enhanced regulation of nonbank financing , to prevent them from getting excessive risk-taking . here , the only explanation still stands out , is a shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , like manufacturing , toward less-capital-intensive activities like services . last but not least , central banks should establish a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown .
across russia ’s near abroad , a form of legalized diplomacy takes root . once again exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a façade of law and democratic institutions , but one behind that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes governed . simply put , the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner is the chairman of the g8 summit in sinjar for example , appears to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal . looking at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential elections , and on a lurch off again criminal charges brought against an opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . the danger for the world stems from putin ’s lawlessness .
there are far too many entry barriers for the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit . democratic latin american countries limp sideways on the grounds that it can not run ahead . across the region , the politicians that writer octavio paz once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres ” create eu citizens ’ organizations , people expecting instead of demand . there are far too many entry barriers against the poor , innovative , and those with no access to credit . in latin america , too , many people live with outstretched hands .
but this is not what such indexes are actually measuring . instead , indexes involve variables , what they refer to as the policy space ” ( indexes ) that are intended to produce either competitiveness or inclusive growth patterns . inclusiveness has to do with income and growth disparities across various regions and social groups , for example . our wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new index of inclusive growth and development are two examples of this . for starters , it has to do with its ability to increase the market share , without sacrificing margins or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity .
whether one considered the dutch welfare state a humane and generous , or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse did take a severe toll on the economy . thus , people seldom return to work after they had lost or abandoned a job , or did so in the underground economy with its unreported cash-transfer payments system . since the 1960s and 1970 ’s , those writing of the netherlands have often lamented the “ dutch disease ” ” . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch had reacted to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to promote a return to work within the formal labor market . as a result , there were so many lavish subsidies , donations , and transfers – targeted at everyone from truly needy to artists – that after-tax salaries had often little to earn .
yet substantial segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america falls into recession in the coming months , trump will be reelected . moreover , their prognosis is driven not only by a fear of trump being wrong once again ; many have seemingly resigned to such an outcome ; and some may even have hoped for it . at this point , a comparison with the 1830s inevitably reappeared to marvel . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but in their seeming acceptance of trump ’s reelection , the large sections of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s ’s financial and industrial elites , when hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , providing youth opportunities , whatever backrooms , ascend the income ladder . governments must take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies intended to ensure that the gains are shared much more equitably and sustainably . to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , providing youth opportunities , whatever backgrounds , to ascend the income ladder . market mechanisms alone are not sufficient to achieve this outcome . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced a plan to raise the national minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 win ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and to just 55 % above its current level , by 2020 .
egyptian defenses blocked a central highway across sinai with a enriched box containing powerful artillery and more than 100,000 tanks , froncing by three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground . sharon had his forces climb over sand dunes to enter trench lines at their summit and striking down their length – a simple maneuver that could have been defeated by egyptians ’ own artillery and israeli tank fire straight at each end . israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their helmets in order to ensure that tank gunners could order their fire directly at egyptians just ahead of them . but paratroopers , haidt flown in helicopters abruptly hauled an egyptian gun crews , who never had a chance in hand-to-hand fighting . still , egyptian artillery had been superior , and was supposed to have at least silenced israeli gun crews , which never had a chance in hand-to-hand fighting .
over the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s ’s ’s ’s population has completed such a course , partly owing to demands that people in specific positions , such as child-care workers , have first-aid certificates . requiring people in particular occupations – including high female teachers , nurses , and police officers to acquire mental-health first-aid certificates would substantially enhance their participation , thereby boosting support for those struggling with mental-health problems . in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . such certifications are even more important throughout the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . the pilot ’s work in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be tailored successfully to the needs of resource-constrained communities .
the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying from aids , even as drugs exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights , because patent protection is creating a barrier to essential medicines to the global poor . but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides for incentives for innovation and new discoveries are combined with the assurance that the poor will gain the access to the medical care they so desperately need ? in response to this offer ( and bad publicity ) , merck , abbott labs and bristol myers squibb , three large patent-holding companies , have announced that his willingness to provide african markets at “ zero-profit ” – ie , of about $ 500 per patient per year for aids drugs they produce . some high-quality generic drug producers , such as india ’s cipla , have offered to make these drugs at prices near the expense of production . but the cost of producing these drugs remains far below what the market price is , perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 a year for some of the three-drug combinations used to treat aids .
in that process , he seems to have restructured french politics . having never held elected office , macron has created a new type of party centered on itself , with the support of both center-left and center-right voters . this reading is reinforced by macron ’s experience himself . but what if populist movements have ’ sustained electoral success helps drive forward a broader political restructuring that ultimately reinforces european democracy ? next year , ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such a policy restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of time magazine the “ “ person on the issue ” featured the salome karwah , a nursing assistant who not only survived an ebola outbreak in her native liberia that year , but it also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe put it , a mother ’s death was a dangerous choice . in fact , karwah was a hero who met what would have been a tragic end . one year ago , she died from complications in childbirth , a murderer that took more than twice as many lives as the entire ebola outbreak did . by 2015 , childbirth had been a dangerous condition for girls and newborns throughout human history .
the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . most now live outside of refugee camps , and many are working – for the most part – for the most part . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . unemployment in turkey and jordan is approaching 10 % and 12 % , respectively , respectively , and their governments have been naturally wary of programs that might cost their citizens jobs . at the same time , the rest of the region wanted to emulate them .
the problem with obama ’s america is rooted in the contradictory nature of his administration . one reason the american people elected to obama in 2008 was that the rhetoric of american idealism led , once again , to the death and displacement of millions . now , with american policymakers talking about “ liberty , ” people see bombing campaigns , torture chambers , and the steady threat of even lethal drones . the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq were undoubtedly complex . but the language used by those wars ’ neo-conservative executives came straight from the kennedy era : spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american-american values . ”
this summer , for example , china and russia have conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise . yet that ’s because bush did not start an issue looming on an issue looming increasingly wider in the region : the changing face of security face in asia , given china ’s ’s increasing economic and military might . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news through design . this followed , in response , with russian news reports that china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises , named indira 2005 , on an equal scale before the end of this year . historically , such a merging of countries was almost unthinkable , and these exercises can not be explained away as simple “ one-off ” ” affairs with little resonance .
they should consider the reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and the responsibility they need to address health and health-care outcomes . anticipatory city planning , based on realistic demographic forecasts , patient registry , and health-information systems , along with participation in urban health-knowledge networks , now needs implementation . proven systems and reforms should be shared among emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and new innovations and new ideas are needed to fit local conditions . this includes new , affordable technologies , such as the low-cost community-health workforce mobile telephony . proven systems and reforms should be shared among emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and new ideas are responsive to local conditions .
shanghai – tight media control of the unrest in tibet has been followed by what , to some , looks like far more open cover-up of the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . that question stands out from chinese public opinion in the latter stage of tibet ’s crisis . the throngs of chinese expatriates , as well as of students , take to the streets , protesting the prejudice that they perceived in western media reporting . is this a change in china ’s media strategy , or is a short-term change in tactic ? much to consternation in the history of western media , the chinese people ’s daily lashed out against its allegedly biased coverage of a tibetan riot .
meanwhile , our gatherer ’s ancestors ate carbohydrate ( the polymers of glucose ) , which was also fowned into the liver , via the glycolytic pathway , to power . and nature had its part by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or an carbohydrate , as an energy source , rather than both . so , too , their livers had stayed healthy . any excess glucose has stimulated the pancreas to loosen the insulin that transmitted glucose into peripheral fat tissue – and that also made the liver an attempt to store glucose like glycogen ( liver starch ) . as a result , our forebears stayed healthy .
there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that we have already won the battle against hiv/aids . across africa , the disease is estimated to have reduced the average national growth rate by 2-4 percentage points each year . sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to just 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that we are already winning the battle against hiv/aids . across africa , the disease is estimated to have reduced the average national growth rate by 2-4 percentage points each year .
yet remaining in the eu ’s single market comes at a cost , one that british voters might not support . the uk would have to accept the sort of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping them . if that democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , it will be left out of the economic cold . even america has stated that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the united kingdom . leaving the single market would trigger grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial sector .
the first is managing the transition toward afghan control , which depends on an disorderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by the end of 2014 . another is the election , also to be held in the 2014 election , of a new afghan president – a process that needs the united states and its nato allies to assert plausibly that they pass the country over to a legitimate government . as the curtain goes , two developments will profoundly affect the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite since the “ saur ” of 1978 , the endgame will be an even more nerve-wracking . as the curtain goes , two developments will greatly affect the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome .
new york – watching a sophisticated democratic society kowtowing to a predictable , avoidable national calamity is a rare , alarming , experience . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no post-brexit relationship agreement will inflict enormous damage on their countries . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening may be accurate only in the short term . after all , such changes are best served not by imposed stifling sanctions or by military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as is the case in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomacy by outside powers . normalization of relations with the us hold the key to the liberalization of cuba . after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions or by intervening military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as is the case in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by external powers . the normalization of relations with the us holds the key to the liberalization of cuba .
while eu countries have not descended into protectionism following the onset of the global financial crisis , hard economic and labor-market conditions in core countries may be prompting policymakers to preserve domestic markets while seeking their external competitiveness . weidmann is well known because it bears little resemblance to when central banks , particularly the european central bank , have bought up sovereign-bond purchases . but , while vigilance is in play , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , initiating genuine currency wars in this process is slim . in recent years , a large amount of political activity has been focused directly or indirectly on the exchange rate , in ways that reveal new sources of economic and political divisions . but claiming that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry the risk of “ a much stronger politicizing ” exchange rate ” misses the mark .
a 1 % increase for immigrant college graduates leads to a 6 % increase in us patents per capita . not only is immigration relevant to economic power ; still , given that almost all developed countries are aging and face the burdens of giving older generations a boost , it might help lessen the grounding of a policy problem . today , the us is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now , it still looks third ( after only china and india ) . the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . moreover , even as studies suggest that short , measurable economic benefits at the national level are comparatively small , and that unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled immigrants may be important to special economic sectors .
in fact , only two of the six major economic tasks identified by the job conference fit neatly with the third-plenum ’s strategic agenda . the call for enhanced social safety adherence to the third-plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to fund safety-net programs like pensions and healthcare . likewise , the emphasis on markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure , and eliminating overcapacity , is compatible with the third plenum aims for achieving a market-based shift toward a consumer-led society . a new approach is required , and it will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework . but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of timeworn “ kitchens ” approach to chinese economic policymaking , innumerable proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best and that are often overwhelmed by intra-chinese inconsistencies .
even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices on world markets , all of which are important factors behind currently elevated european levels of inflation . as european growth slows down , so , too , will large-scale inflationary pressures . fundamental economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy falls headlong into a severe slump presented by bernanke ’s surprise cuts speaks volumes to this . it defies the economic logic of thinking that the global economy – including europe – will escape its impact . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let the economic slowdown do the job for him .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras appears to want to change that ) , while poland ’s leader has consistently cautioned that russia could become a menace to the continent once again . all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy were quick to fall into line politically , enabling putin to exploit ukraine ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that he could not intimidate militarily , owing to nato , have been wooed by discounts under eu sanctions , or punished with price hikes . as a result , hungary pays gazprom ’s roughly $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 – the highest price in the eu . poles have paid a steep price , but they were right .
the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . but , while accusations of biopiracy may enjoy emotional appeals , impartial analyses have shown that they have little factual basis . in reality , biopiracy are rare so scarce . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . the seed treaty also brought under the control of its parties , as well as a secretariat for the 15 research institutions that harbor the consultative group on international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership .
likewise , he reduced the resources channeled toward specific religious institutions , helped those within his circle to establish private banks through easing regulations , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military establishment , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , it appears unlikely that a disgraced , unpopular president can abandon his effort to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . yet , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the us president has waned considerably , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation band . ” in fact , by having long fully promoted mashai as his successor , khamenei has backpedaled on his illicit efforts , and has now placed a stop to mashai ’s candidacy altogether . moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media now criticize his economic and political agenda .
the tax plan emphasized that italy , like japan , is a country of both public debt and private wealth . as the economist marco fortis points out , italians ’ combined wealth continues , if not for a very long period , second to none on europe . under monti ’s leadership , the reforms were finally initiated , and the markets were calmed . in order to shore up the credibility of italy ’s public finances , monti ’s governments substantially raised taxes , particularly on the real economy , while preserving already record-high income-tax rates . beyond increasing international credibility , the two big shifts toward italy ’s political landscape shaped italy ’s electoral campaigns .
the media have never been more enthusiastic about free speech than when they see it reddening the faces , with rage or humiliation , of those in power . it does not undo the original damage , and typically compounds it with more publicity . one of the hardest lessons for senior us government officials to learn – ­ – ­ ­ ­ including me , when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister amongst delhi , is the futility of all but a miniscule minority of cases tried to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . prosecution typically boosts leakers ’ stature , making it useless as a deterrent . but there is some lines to be drawn where good government is possible , just as a privacy zone in our personal and family lives was crucial to sustaining the relationships that matter most to us .
moreover , while may was in the “ “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that as prime minister , she will be held to blame for possible setbacks in the brexit negotiations . she also recognizes that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the mass media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” ” ” while hardly telling her wins . clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that will satisfying the two groups . she wants to get out before voters realize that the leave campaign has sold them a sham bill of goods , including a promise that they could keep all the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without having to allow free movement of labor . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as soon as possible .
among other things , such surveys should strive to establish a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . so far , data-collection efforts should include a focus on mental-health care . indeed , more studies are needed to inform health policy and planning adequately . to complement such efforts , we also must invest in advancing our understanding of how these risk factors are , most often studied , in connectivity with early childhood and adulthood , affects adolescents with health . according to the global burden of disease study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of early death and disability among adults aged 50 and above ; for the young , that figure drops to 26 % .
but talk of regime change may have spurred musharraf to re-enter politics . thus , in a lengthy bbc interview before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution capable of saving the country from its current woes . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan . ” pakistan these days is a troubled country , both politically and economically . only a elected politician with the backing of one ’s major constituencies can hope for a restoration of political order and economic health , with musharraf presenting himself as a candidate whom the army could uphold .
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic deliberation , western democracies find themselves struggling to secure stable , long-term growth in what is said by , say , an authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to address this issue in a democratic context . first , governments could be tied more tightly to their predecessors ’ policy choices . there are at least two ways to address this issue in a democratic context . that way , increasingly forward-thinking legislation that was discussed and enacted will have the time really to take effect , beyond the risks that it simply will have been annihilated by an successive administration .
the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public expenditure to education . moreover , the ongoing decline in aid to education must be reversed , with new financial resources – such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – set up . this begins with the political will , and setting the sdgs for priorities . at the wef in incheon , the nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be placed prominently at every politician running for election campaigns , at all levels of government . for the sdgs to become operational , education must receive a higher degree bilaterally , nationally , and globally .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it needs to act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar peg ties its hands because it precludes them to raise interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to tight reserve requirements , effectively rationing of credit , and thereby triggering a domestic credit squeeze amid the current international financial crisis , which is likely to compel some local banks to default , owing to liquidity problems . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , has exploded by no less than 52 % over the past year , which points to inflation hits 30 % soon . ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % annually , 10 % less than the inflation rate , meaning that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of more than 10 % per year . rationing is always worse than the market ; it has been , however , at least for the time being .
the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then be confronted by a united front of arab states backed by turkey , the us , and , to a lesser extent , israel . in fact , developments in syria , iran , ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a role here . the initial concerns about iranian domestic politics and the ongoing intra-regime power struggle – & a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before – have come to mind because neither the conservatives nor the reformers were prepared to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad to face a diplomatic triumph . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this route to failure would be closed off . iran would then find it difficult to maintain its foothold in lebanon , with its status increasingly complicated , even in iraq , despite its shia majority .
insofar as the term retains any meaning , the world is bipolar and likely to remain so throughout the foreseeable future . as mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe is the hour to come and go . ” its lack of any vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economy stand in sharp contrast to the united states more dominant even than romans … yet the problem has not been our obsolete understanding of power . the american political scientist andrei moravcsik makes the similar argument that european nations , singly and collectively , are the only states other than those that are possible to “ exert global influence over our full spectrum , ” from which point of view to not being able to exert global power ? the eu ’s ’s ’s approach of sharing power , hammering out agreements , and resolving multiple committees may be frustrating and lacks the drama , but are becoming more consequential for the many issues in a networked , interdependent world .
tehran – with iranians set to go to the polls on june twelve to elect a new president . while some might argue that palestinian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is actually not of any clear-cut one . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has said repeatedly in public settings that he would not declare his vote among the nominees . but i have one vote , and i would not identify a certain candidate , because those themselves would be able to elect their own , merit-based candidates . indeed , in massachusetts on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there have been some rumors that i support a specific candidate for the presidential election . ”
but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower personal income tax rates boost taxable incomes as individuals increase earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . though the net fiscal change may be able to widen the budget deficit in the short run , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . there is important normative reason why the projected budget will return to surplus . the house republicans have only a very small majority in the senate , where the filibuster rule requires that three-fifths majority passing through majority legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block a republican-fiscal agenda . likewise , moving toward a territorial tax system will raise taxable profits , mostly in the short run , as companies repatriate some of their existing overseas funding shares .
addressing the eu ’s genuine economic and social needs will require an efficient blue-– or green-card policy for economic migrants , with an overall immigration target . second , europe needs to lead the way on economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately . combining them has brought its asylum system close to collapse ; separating them would help to ensure that those in fear for their lives can receive a fair hearing in which their rights are protected . likewise , the eu must revitalize its operation sophia ’s initiative to fight refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis is implemented before the eu is implemented .
in both cases , the effort to defend a fixed-exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals was a major factor , as was true in turkey , in the year leading up to its currency collapse in february 2001 . emerging-market bulls point out that most major middle-income countries substantially held down their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal space they had lacking in the past . yet neither the mexican ‘ tequila crisis , ’ - of 1994 or of the asian crises of 1997 nor the asian crisis of 1997 posed large public deficits . will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring with it more emerging-market problems this year ? to what extent there is today ’s conditions comparable to those that triggered the asian crises of 1997 or other abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ?
already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours a week . at the same time , younger people have long struggled to pursue faster education , leisure , friends and , crucially , children . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies allow older people to work more years and allow everyone to work fewer hours . one possibility is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and an average job life that extends up to an age of 70 – and even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise . such reform , over a few decades , could take place without slowing economic growth or reducing prosperity .
prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the eu , but , in particular , because a referendum might not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . denmark ’s government did just that and seems to bring the danish public around to the idea of joining the eu . the bouncing ” from britain in may is simply impossible . it is that a commitment by which the eu now has a binding government . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the eu , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is ready to try .
while president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb petroleum imports in the long run , such actions require major changes in transportation infrastructure , which will require a decade to complete . a recent report by the bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies a new coalition . the center of the range of scenarios identified by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost triple their pre-industrial levels in 2100 . while the bush administration remains skeptical of the science behind such projections , some national and local governments are practicing measures to cut co2 emissions . more fundamentally , companies like general electric are committing to the green goals that go well beyond government regulation .
an important point for students to take into minds is that they should motivate themselves to deliver a deep understanding , not rote memorization , of subjects that they study to fulfill the role of true experts in whatever field they ultimately decide to pursue . achieving this kind of education will probably means pursuing what one naturally finds exciting and engaging , whether that is finance or physiology . people in such fields are ultimately bought and sold by corporate executives as much as people across the technical fields . hardly anyone is making all this headway in the entrepreneurial world . at the same time , they should invest in acquiring communication skills that will be similarly pivotal to successful careers .
but abortion is most common in developing countries , where access to family-planning services often is limited . in the united states , as many as 61 % of abortion patients in their twenties , 59 % are already single mothers , and nearly two-thirds identify with an organized religion . abortions occur each year in each country , and across every socioeconomic class , all of which is the same . but this day also appears to be spreading a message on behalf of elizabeth and other women like her : abortion , while in many countries a political wedge issue , tends to simply be a fact of life . each year , 25 % of all pregnancies – some 56 million – are terminated .
a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers are not demanding higher nominal wages , because they understand that doing so would merely lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . this argument is not out of proportion ; monetary policy presumably has some effects on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from the ecb ’s tough stance . if and when there is wage pressure , the ecb , to remain true to its word , might be forced to raise interest rates much more than it now expects . the ecb should not delude itself to think that a small increase in interest rates will be sufficient .
megaupload authorized its 180 million registered users to be upload and subsequently removed movies , tv shows , and music , and some of the money earned by dotcom ( from soliciting advertisements and subscriptions ) were on display at its mansion near the baadkland , where it kept its rolls-royce and other exotic cars rolls-royce . dotcom ’s lawyer argues that megaupload merely provided storage for its subscribers ’ files , with no control over what they store . but megaupload offered monetary rewards to users who had uploaded files that had proven popular with other users . dotcom ’s lawyer argues that megaupload merely provided storage for its subscribers ’ files , and had no control over what they store . but megaupload offered monetary rewards to users who uploaded files , who demonstrated a popular way with other users .
moscow – when an opening ceremony in the beijing olympic games starts in just a few days , the audience will present its gauntlet with an overtly choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . to be sure , the images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are the last thing china ’s world leaders have in mind over their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims a country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within the idyll of a “ harmonious development . ” yet , both aesthetically and politically , the parallel is hardly far-fetched . like those regimes , fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to turn public space and sporting events into visible evidence of their fitness and their mandate to govern . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler favorite architect and designer from the 1936 berlin olympics , to design a master plan for the beijing games , china , my cabinet has alluded to the radical politicization of the aesthetics that was a hallmark of twentieth-century old totalitarianism .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger ever since . but it has also made the topic less pertinent , reducing their legitimacy and credibility . economists are no longer seeing many of the public being asked the right questions , or attempting to answer them with integrity . to recover its credibility , economics needs a become more open to criticism against assumptions , methods , and outcomes . the inconvenient truths spoken by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely .
the united states is reckoning with a psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a congressional majority . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability and global leadership . europe is in the throes of a wrenching economic , social , political , and institutional crisis . china , on the other hand , has a dynamic , outward-looking – giving good reason to the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on crucial initiatives ( like sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) .
equally significant was its projection of china as a nascent leader of the new international cultural order . in keeping with china in its recent effort to project its own “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced the idea of an historic but dynamic culture at its best . many artists involved in creating the spectacle , including the fireworks specialist roman guo qiang , the dance star shen wei , and the composer tan dun gave their fame mainly to the west . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium became the creation of a multinational design team of herzog & de meuron with suggestions by the visual artist ai weiwei . other than the presence of a few men ’s liberation army troops , you would have been hard pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime , or her founder , mao zedong .
my own research , which comprised thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , has centered on a single question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they already do on their own . one of the most efficient ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is by promoting financial autonomy . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” ” a network of like-minded women paying dues to build a shared pool of resources . that money can then be attracted to fund any multiple items , such as small business expenditures , school fees , or health-care costs .
indeed , europeans should have understood that such a viewpoint is spreading worldwide , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . indeed , europeans should have understood that such a viewpoint spreads globally , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . so , too , was the summit ’s outcome a long cry from havel . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the choices made by no putative world government , but the fact that the g8 days now seem numbered . president putin ’s behavior at the summit clearly demonstrated what he thinks of europeans ; not too much .
given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some of the short-run losses . in most areas , the epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . though the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , tentative research indicates that the commercial gains brought by the epas is negotiated are likely to be concentrated around a few agricultural products – and excludes least-developed countries . some will argue that the problem is more about timing , because the losses are likely to materialize early , and the possible benefits brought by increased access to eu markets will take longer to emerge . at the same time , african leaders are right to be worried .
john dower , an american historian and specialist of modern japan , studied the issue at length . for americans , there was `` a heroic or triumphant account , '' in which the atomic bomb represents the ultimate blow against an aggressive , fanatic and savage enemy . john dower , an american historian and specialist of modern japan , studied the issue at length . he demonstrated how history can be put forward and revalued in totally different forms : away from the american or japanese point of view , even though no one gives in the face of facts or forged sources . he demonstrated how history can be put forward and revalue in totally different forms : ranging from the american or japanese point of view , despite the fact that no one generates facts or summarizes sources .
moreover , johnson has already disbanded the civil-service troservice team that spearheaded the earlier round of negotiations . that show , in turn , has years to run it . it will push real issues down the road rather than end the brexit debate . any new deal will be perhaps the old deal with few bells and snatches . it would have to be paved together with the october 17 european council summit , where european leaders are growing more frustration with the entire process .
european leaders all too often shout at the sidelines when they should be on the field acting to defend common european national interests . likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime has left a void created by putin and iran . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood was n’t enough , we , too , allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the european union itself . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders that frighteningly – but not shockingly , a reflection of putin and erdoğan . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán all polish governments , notably in syria , have busily constructing illiberal states within the eu .
a shared framework also needs to be created , so that such programs can scaled up and perform in different contexts . to deliver opportunity and safety for all , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruptions , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . as the nature of work shifts , so must the character of benefit systems . for example , delivering benefits “ points , ” ” ” ” rather than dollar-denominated money in a particular currency , would enable regimes to operate across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to be created to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would retain value as they migrated with those who earned them .
moreover , even without timely correction , brazil will react to crises in a far different way for mexico . rightly or unreasonably , mexican policymakers have been in awe of wall street ; brazil has no such hang , either . on the surface , and beneath the surface , brazil has made a dramatic turn : inflation is down to nontrivial levels . if and when there is one part , brazilian policymakers have shed few tears for international investors . ultimately , brazilian policymakers have been concerned with having done well , rather than with the prosperity of foreign investors .
the power of markets to drive radical changes in power and land use is great ; but , as the 2017 storm season should remind us , a climate emergency we face will require vigorous , urgent action . but , while techniques already exist , success will require increased use of no-till farming , embracing a permaculture principles , better management of wetlands , and the application of rotational grazing techniques , among others . by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be locked into forests and soils . but do n’t desperation : there is still some time to preserve our climate . transforming how people acquire and consume energy , and taking advantage of land , will require vigorous incentives and policy frameworks to set our course for success .
warren , meanwhile , has proposed instituting universal childcare , to fund a wealth-management wealth tax above $ 50 million . many democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of government-funded health care . but , after former us president barack obama attempted to redress the american health-care disaster with halfway through measures , arguably the most politically feasible at a time – those vying for the democratic nomination clearly have more ambitious plans . a few contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and theodrourke – disagree completely about the details of such regimes , or have simply been unearthed . but their suggestions – a single-payer system ( say , medicare for all ” ) , a national health service , or something else – do not all mean the same thing .
they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe leaders who seem otherwise little different from previous generations of politicians , who overran them out of the gains of globalization and pooh-poopoohed their grievances ? when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises they are making . but there is another explanation , one that is acutely responsive with both rationality and self-interest . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face the problem of asymmetric information . they tend to attract candidates who have anti-establishment credentials , and they can be safely expected to depart from prevailing policies .
new york – president paul kagame last year had more to do with power than with democracy . today , leaders in rwanda , widely seen as an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . though kagame remains popular , his government was widely criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the popular vote . politically , rwanda is strong , disciplined , and organized , but it has no liberal values . the conclusion i draw is not that human rights do matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable as long as the tradeoff remains acceptable to economic and institutional governance .
moreover , there is an obvious , shared interest in doing so : nobody benefits from expanding systemic risk . cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on threshold levels of safety , stability , and unpredictability . there is no doubt more important for g-20 governments to bolster crucial systems that enable global flows of flows than they are to addressing strictly economic issues . continued economic progress in the developing world , and the recovery in advanced countries , requires preventing local and regional conflicts from delivering great systemic shocks . this is the threshold that seems to be coming under threat .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that large banks have never been properly investigated for mismanaging mortgages , aggregation , and technicalities that have been central to a financial crisis and loss of more than eight million jobs . yet leading banks are also being accused of illicit behavior at the same time , by inducing people to borrow , for example , by deceiving them about the interest rate that would actually go to pay , while misrepresenting leading mortgage-backed securities to investors . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focused on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . but , thanks to new york city ’s efforts , eric schneiderman , and others , serious discussion has started in the united states with an out-court mortgage settlement between the state-owned generals and prominent financial-sector firms . if these charges are true , bank executives involved may fear that civil lawsuits would uncover evidence that could be applied in criminal prosecution .
“ over the rivers and down highways and , along with countless jungle journeys , ” the populations of east pakistan continues to fetch in india : the endless unorganized flow of refugees with a small sliver of tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothing piled up upon their heads carrying their ill children and their old ones . they are silent , save the roadside from a child whimpering right now and then , but their face tells the story . many of them are sick , and they have been covered by dores . they pad along barefooted , with the mud sucking at its heels in wet parts . others have cholera , and when they died by the roadside there can not be one to bury them .
charges of currency manipulation , as well as of the threat of protectionist measures , have intensified . with the uk giving the world free trade in the 1840s , it has now decided to go it alone ; the old atlantic charter allies impose national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . now the global spotlight is turning to france and its looming us presidential election in the us . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that drove european integration and kept it at the center of the postwar multilateral system . a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a crumbling world order .
new york – at a time when i was the bright-eyed eighth grader in sri lanka , i might n’t have been able to wait for an early class of sex education . in our early teens , my classmates and i were as curious as we were clueless about the role of sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving credible answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply handing out a book , telling ourselves to read a specific chapter , and leaving to figure things out to our own . millions of young people worldwide have similar experiences , often with serious adverse consequences . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , the fact is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been on war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . regardless of how facebook holds digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares there have already dispensed with a wake-up call from firms and policymakers around the world .
cambridge – global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse , too . it is the world ’s largest volume exporter , while it is the world ’s second-largest economy . moreover , four decades after the nixon shock , ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , the impoverished and autarkic country that nixon had visited is history . four decades after the nixon shock , ” ” ” ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , the impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . it is also the us , just as one reflects china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , is an opportune time to reflect on how china continues to fall short in overcoming systemic hurdles to long-term success .
a significant chinese slowdown may already be set to unfold . us president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but that only deflects attention to an economy that has already slowed because it makes the shift away from an export-dependent – and investment-led growth toward a more sustainable indigenous consumption-led growth . how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the intrinsic contradiction between an increasingly centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could come down quite dramatically . in fact , china is already the dominant global exporter , and there is neither market space nor policymaking to allow it to maintain its previous pace of export-led expansion . alas , the possibilities for avoiding the consumer-led transition and continued support for exports and real-estate investment remain highly appealing , either .
a well-educated citizenry is also vital if young men and women acquire the skills they need to perform the type of job today ’s globalized and competitive world demands . in addition , democracy demands an informed citizenry able to question its government . the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underlines the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy . alas , instead of advancing , what we are seeing is a cycle of insufficient educational opportunity that leads to a lack of economic opportunity . the arab world faces a serious problem that only more flexible , democratic political systems can meet .
with kurds – most of them muslim civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council remained typically silent , while europeans denounced everything and all went involved . as foreign-policy catastrophes move , this is one on our track record books . but the seeds for that larger conflagration were sown long before this now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . faced with the threat of military action , the us president compromised to destroy turkey ’s own economy , provided that he did what he had enabled to do . absent any coherent policy , the conditions were ripe for a crisis .
it is well documented that europe and the united states have under-invested in infrastructure . yet an <UNK> ter-money program – a fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it back in 1969 – would also represent a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an abundance of prudence for both citizen and investor perception , confidence , and solid governance structures . a less-than-risky , time-tested route for stimulating demand would be a significant increase in official infrastructure investment financed by government debt . from a macroeconomic perspective , a case for infrastructure investment is a “ twofer ” : it strengthens productivity and competitiveness in the long run and accounts where tapping unused capacity , it boosts demand , output , and employment with significant short-run multiplier effects . and such an approach would cement the notion that central-bank policy is “ the only game in town , ” ” ” relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility to provide pro-growth policies and the fiscal decisions that they control .
with the government losing $ 4.5 billion annually by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improved safety standards , or speeding up trains . and , if all of this were not bad enough , india ’s leaders seem not to recognize the challenges that railways are currently being held out . in a country where rail passengers can not even expect a clean toilet , let alone on-time , prime minister narendra modi has talked about introducing bullet trains – the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . in the past 30 years , just 317 out of 676 nationally sanctioned projects have ended up in the past , and it is hard to see how railroads will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion they need to complete their remaining “ 359 ” projects . and , if all of this were n’t bad enough , india ’s leadership does not seem to be recognizing the challenges that railways are already in place .
cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed for development and implementation of efficient policies . a wide range of organizations has now emerged to strengthen the policy-making capacity of city governments , including michael bloomberg ’s government-innovation program , fuse corps , outcomes for americans , social funding , one-third of their capital partners , and usafacts . and there are the many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . under federalism , whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” arrangements often assume that state and local governments follow the same ends . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue-” cities and right-leaning “ red ” states where many are located .
we need to look beyond these figures to determine who truly is responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of popular discourse . let ’s start with the “ patient zero ” sources in this political plague : rupert murdoch . murdoch ’s newspapers and tv networks might as well have patented the recipe for an deceitful , dog-whistle politics that have driven trump ’s rise and the brexit vote . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-amusement complex had coarsened politics in the uk and the us – not to mention his own native australia – in favor of profit and political influence . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-amusement complex has coarsened politics in the uk and the us – not to mention his native australia – for the sake of profit and political influence .