another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . the middle east will remain the central pillar of world energy for decades to come . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in tumult , the complexity of which defies analytical consensus . but no amount of fancy footwork , either pivoting or pirouetting , may sap that region ’s significance . do the region ’s crises stem from its lack of a peace deal with israel ?
and pakistan then becomes even more determined to try to stay ahead of india . with china assuming that course , india – outside the npt but with 100 weapons of its own , feeling the need to add to its own arsenal . with russia and america holding the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any one of the other set of nuclear-armed states to lower their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the large two make further drastic cuts to theirs . this confluence of deterrence logic produces a snowball effect . to be sure , china shares russia ’s concern about the us ’s conventional and missile-defense quest , and increases and modernize its estimated 240-weapon stockpile .
two centuries later , that was no longer the case : before the end of the nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries that spread from the industrial revolution were , for the first time in recorded history , light-years exceeded any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence . how , precisely , were these accomplishments to appear ? what were the small differences that proved to matter so much ? they occurred despite a tripling of the population that placed extraordinary malthusian strain on the economy ’s underlying natural-resource base , and despite the mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for almost a century of intensive war against france , a power with twice that of britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s population . early flying in the process of industrial-era economic accomplishments had occurred despite a substantial share of national income to support a combination of corrupt , decadent and profligate aristocracy .
yet another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . may is in no position to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though , in the face of re-election next year , an increasingly desperate french president françois hollande says that she is ) . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . the referendum ’s outcome has little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to be managed rather than an existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers seem to have imagined . may , as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) writing , has already created the institutional skeleton of a policy strategy . her administration has formed the eu ’s ministry of international commerce to establish commercial arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( indeed , the european commission had previously handled such arrangements ) .
whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment . venezuela tried to fund itself with relief from the china development bank , which does not impose the kind of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . the chinese did not need that venezuela do anything to increase the likelihood that it will the regains ’s creditworthiness . by doing so , they merely demanded more oil as collateral . instead , the cdb lends itself on covert terms for uses that are revealed and corrupt , and with built-in privilege of chinese firms in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) .
moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty to replace a fragile international moratorium may not have come into force without america ’s senate ratification . it featured two clips of obama saying , those “ i ’ve worked with ” us republican senator dick lugar to pass the legislation , ” ” ” ” and “ what i was reaching out to us senator dick lugar . the context was not explained , but what obama said in full was this : “ i ’ve worked with then-republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that ensures and destroy some of the world ’s deadliest , carelessness , and – “ what i got out of reach from senator dick lugar , a republican , to help lock down loose nuclear weapons . ” with lugar ’s defeat , along with the simultaneous exit from recent republican moderates like senator olympia snowe of maine , poised to place national interests ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties . one television advertisement stated all of the low rent cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign .
perhaps it will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but his treachery generates little resentment . with their brittle legitimacy , the soviets have always feared that betrayal . they have called their crime izmena rodine a betrayal of the motherland -- betrayal of the motherland -- pick up this high moral language for minor transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally . with their fragile legitimacy , the soviets have always worried about betrayal . insecure states grow faster into a sense of betrayal .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs , which has similarly been forced by humans – and even used – by torture prisoners . but , while ect rarely , if ever , causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage and has not been shown to do so , much and growing numbers get antipsychotic drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and the host of others , whose lives are shortened by treatment , with no effort to seek their informed consent . like antipsychotic drugs , anti-depressant drugs and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic impact . but , while ect rarely existed if ever , it causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage and was not manifested in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs do regularly , in the form of tarullo dyskinesia , and other syndromes . although ect ’s opponents believe that it causes the brain to death , this is hard to prove .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore recently failed to finalize a deal on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; soon , they will have another chance to complete what will become the world ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , with ten other pacific rim countries – with a combined annual gdp of roughly $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout compares with their ambitions ; talks go far beyond traditional trade issues , which account for just five of the top 29 proposed chapters ; and consider a broad range of investment and regulatory issues that will affect many millions of people – and not always positively . whether trade liberalization generally helps or hurts those most vulnerable is a complicated question . but , owing to serious concerns that the tpp will fail to contemplate important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration .
open education promises to turn the existing textbook production pipelines into a vast dynamic knowledge ecosystem that is in continuous condition of creation , use , reuse , and improvement . and open-minded education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interactions among students and faculty worldwide . the exciting truth of open education is that a fully free approach is just the beginning . late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to draw on a consensus about open learning ’s ideals and approaches , committing ourselves to them in a cape town open education declaration , officially released on january 22 . an open learning strategy promises to provide children learning material tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ lean ” materials , alongside quicker feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content and improved .
what , in his view , are the boundaries for america ’s engagement ? under what conditions would the american people use their capabilities at the time ? massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” ” and ethnic cleansing is , in many cases , a “ transfer of the population . ” almost 70 years ago , when george orwell explored the inclination toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ in terms of political speech and the writing are largely a defensive ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . in other words , “ hazy language is essential to obscure unsavory realities .
brussels – to many people in the west , china appears to have gone from a country that “ kept the head of cool and maintains a low profile , ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves good international bust-up . putting the australian mining executive behind bars after about ten years , squeezing out google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting the mid-level official wag his finger-pointing at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not the best way to convince partners of your constructive purpose . but the point in recerating this litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as to demonstrate to the dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ ordinary ” ” power , the world will forget the many millions of people that it still needs to lift themselves out of poverty . the chinese leadership seems aware of this dilemma , and is not actually eager to find themselves embroiled in fierce competition with the west or its immediate neighbors . nor is it comforting to remember that china , up to the world , has stubbornly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in a major offensive military system , and pillorying western leaders for irresponsible finance policies and protectionism .
the international situation at that time was no less dangerous than it is today . yet we have succeeded in ameliorating it , not only normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation on its own . fortunately , experience in the 1980s suggests a way forward . simply put , that has been accomplished primarily through dialogue . if this continues , europe will lose influence in world affairs , and will gradually become irrelevant as a result .
but confronting it will require us to reinvent antitrust policy for the digital age . and , once those firms are established and dominate their chosen marketplace , the new economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive measures that exclude actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . this increased market concentration is widening the gap between firms that own the robots ( capital ) and those that robots replace ( labor ) . and , as the mit economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. lina patterson , christina patterson , and john van reenen shows , american industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . these factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms that have diminished labor need .
do we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s political leaders , especially that of a “ merkozy ” poll of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by political opponents , but by jittery investors , it is markets , not european leaders that have opened the doors to a european fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration , and we can thank for it . and whom should we thank for all of this progress in europe ? alas not : progress has resulted almost exclusively from the pressures of much-maligned financial markets .
depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 illustrate the “ global ” nature of the problem that the us is facing . demand remains depressed by the overhang of debt accumulated prior to 2008 . indeed , that pre-2008 us debt did n’t go away ; it simply shifted between sectors and countries . forecasts for us economic growth for us economic growth have been downward substantially since the federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . and , if multiple currencies almost everyone depreciate against the american dollar , the resulting effect on america ’s manufacturing industries could slow , undermining its import demand and thus hurt the word for us exporters .
paris – us president donald trump has stirred a transatlantic alliance that had long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” the eu would soon crumble , it predicted , with the succession of countries following the united kingdom . the united states , its stature indicates , would do more than fine . with trump , the world has become used to shocking statements and shameless reversals .
those that survived did so only barely , with vastly reduced output going primarily to the " ex-soviet " market . russia had the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a series of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technologies ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy appliances for mining and hydrocarbon industries . all of these industries will benefit from the potential to sustain enormous demand growth in large markets such as china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term growth , led by high-tech industries , requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including the openness of foreign actors . furthermore , the social and political environment must still be conducive to a high-tech work force , providing an attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and promoting entrepreneurship and creativity .
to be sure , there is no solution to the situation that is cut and dried up . but , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( implying little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , the right type of public-investment performance would probably spur more private-sector investment . a return to public-sector investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms that vary from country to country . and there is some potential for abuse , with spending misclassified as investment .
argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is under attack for mismanaging the economy , and for america ’s banking interests for forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because he is a woman . the central issue in these tv programs is not that the main role played by women . outside of the united states , women have already reached the highest levels of power . in germany , german chancellor angela merkel , having won three consecutive general elections , is widely respected or resented by her policies of austerity , not those of her gender . personalism , not gender , drives the narrative ; indeed , it is the core of the country .
bernanke has emphasized that the two policies are on separate tracks and react to various indicators of the economy ’s performance . with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until the end of 2015 . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising the fed ’s board of governors and presidents of regional federal reserve banks , agreed that the federal funds rate would remain at its current near-zero level until the us unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % , and could be expected to remain there or decline even further . yet there are the caveats that makes this forward guidance ambiguous and therefore deplorable . the fed warns that it might raise the federal funds rate if its projected annual rate of inflation increases from its current level of bit less than 2 % to just over 2.5 % .
during the last decades of the twentieth century , social inequality grew threefold . as a result , two million educated professionals in russia have lately been emigration from russia . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a “ feudal society , ” with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbated the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” afflicting many of the oil-exporting countries . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is only 6-10 % of that in the us , enabling the economy ’s struggles even when sky-high oil prices lead to its major exports . and , with affordable care for housing , health-care services , and education less accessible now than at any point in the late 1980 ’s , his putin policy program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital – a key problem holding back russia ’s economy .
it is significant that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) let iran know that any action to place itself in a position to field its nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by a accord , will not be tolerated . harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa settlement ; that , too , is not precluding the accord . iran should likewise be informing the fact that it would commit america and its allies to making a preemptive military strike if it would appear intent on bringing the world to a fait accompli . meanwhile , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s fears about its neighbors , several of which will be tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s potential breakaway in the next 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear program . the world erred in allowing north korea to pass a nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again .
short-run exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the currency ’s underlying strength . for starters , the dollar has come under fire since the election only because trump has signaled a willingness to monetize deep tax cuts and to ramp up spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly under-depleted ” military . this will fuel near-term economic growth , and it inevitably pushes interest rates up . indeed , longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – especially as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling . in terms of the years ahead , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s election will almost certainly prove bad for greece .
as home secretary , she has often won battles against her own ministers simply by refusing to express her views , or even to appear at meetings until minutes before some final decisions must be made . europe ’s leaders could all too easily neutralize might be the threat of a no-deal brexit , and thus eliminate any need to offer the concessions that she demands . to do this , they have to understand the way behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and delay . but this happy outlook for may rests on one crucial premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain virtually unchanged . throughout her political career , she has procrastination as a winning strategy .
and it ranks the 58th for institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and political instability . moreover , the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . externally , south koreans are highly vulnerable to the escalating north korean nuclear threat . finally , service-sector productivity totals just 45 % of that in the manufacturing sector , on average , compared to the oecd average of 90 % . in recent months , north korea has launched a series of ballistic missiles and conducted a nuclear test , spurring an exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
it is not sustainable for a people of smolensk oblast to live under a constitutional democracy , whereas the citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the victims of wanton shelling and destruction . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and chechnya reinforces reactionary forces that oppose liberal democracy . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet state fodder for resources dedicated to expanding russia ’s influence in the ex-soviet republics . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of polish slavery , demonstrates that because liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , individual citizenship rights can not be denied to members ’ colonial subjects or particular groups . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces reactionary forces resisting liberal democracy .
at the hiroshima museum itself , a victim ’s role has been exploited in ways that are similarly distortionary . in the japanese perspective , there has been an alleged `` account of victimization , '' of course , in which `` atomic bombs '' became a symbol of a particular type of misery -- rather like the holocaust for the jews . neither japan 's government 's responsibility to initiating and continue a war - nor of the inhumane remedies that the prisoners of war or the subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule - are adequately acknowledged . whether we identify with heroes or victims with the airplane pilots which put an end to wwii , or with passive populations subjected to the hell of atomic annihilation , we are invariably rooting out against the `` innocents and those felt by the percomparable good guys . '' everybody chooses the point of view that fits it best .
the intended beneficiaries of these actions should be defined as rights-holders . at the same time , the framework should include a indiscriminate requirement , ensuring that we direct our attention toward the most vulnerable groups , not just those who are well-connected , literate , and regime favorites , rather than just those for whom quick victory can deliver them . rather than being helped because they have unsatisfied needs , remedies are granted , because their rights go bust . accountability mechanisms should be established , allowing victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . this removes the stigma of charities and empower victims .
the chinese , for their part , are doing this in two ways as well . the most important problem that must be managed is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese stealing us firms ’ and using it to help chinese firms compete with those same firms in china and around the world . first , american firms that want to do business in china are required to have both a partner in china and sharing their technology with that firm . that compulsory technology sharing is explicitly forbidden by the rules of the world trade organization .
but the battle within islam is neither a satisfactory nor sufficient explanation for the state of anarchy we see in the region like south sudan , whose 11 million people gained independence just over three years ago . though the world ’s newest country has emerged from the disarray of a deep-rooted civil war between christians and muslims , the independence referendum has received 99 % of the support . it pits countries and regions against each other , hezbollah to travel halfway around the world to join jihad , threatening to unleash more violence against muslims as they did against christianity , jews , and others . but today , 1.5 million its citizens have been uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam , and everything to do with struggle along the ethnic lines to control the country ’s resources . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) that former president george w. bush had signed on to legislation in october 2008 began to be concluded as a program by which the us treasury department had purchased problematic , largely of mortgage-based assets directly from financial institutions . but that has proved to be more complicated than originally thought , and within a few weeks the us government simply recapitalized american banks . other bad decisions have not been as easily reversed , as has been the case in recent months . with this one unilateral decision , the us authorities have destabilized the rest of europe . hoping to prevent a run on banking , the irish government offered a blanket guarantee of all banking deposits .
hate speech and other types of threatening and illicit content must be attacked at the source . on one hand , increased media literacy is essential on the part of consumers who need to be taught , from a youthful age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . but this is no quick fix at first . on the other hand , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models , which make it easier and even reward hate speech . on the other hand , and this is what netzdg experiments intended to ensure , social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that encourage accountable uses .
independently of what we think about britain leaving the eu , we can ask for two other questions , one general and one specific to brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy make decisions directly , in a referendum rather than via their elected representatives ? and , more precisely , should british legislators regard themselves as bound by the result of the june 23 referendum ? on the general point , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the idea of democracy on its own , subject only to feasibility constraints . in more recent times , the small city-states might be direct democracies ; but , in the larger eu , at a time when communication was slow , representatives would have to decide the many questions required to debate and vote .
america ’s government will not object because of its own policies . recently , a large coalition of technology firms and civil-society organizations sent a us letter to president barack obama , arguing against back-doors . they regard a us demand for back-doors on an equal footing with the automobile manufacturer would view a request for a defective engine . beyond “ undermining any american ’s cyber security , ” and the nation ’s economic security , ” signers argued , “ imposing new vulnerabilities ” to weaken encrypted products in the us would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe . what supporters of encryption recognize is that “ if american companies maintain the capacity to unlock their own customers ’ data and devices on their request , ” governments other than the united states will demand equal access and also be emboldened to demand the same capability from their indigenous companies .
kuala lumpur – malaysia aside from a period of year-old government , led by prime minister mahathir mohamad , has suddenly found itself mired in a political scandal , following an online circulation of a sex video involving a cabinet minister and another person . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . weaponizing sodomy charges is nothing new in malaysia , twice stemming from the incarceration of the people ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim . sadly , however , the latest drama , like those that preceding it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
macron has also signaled that he will pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament election . at a time of much hand-wringing over the decline of liberalism , the future of welfare democracy , the rise of right-wing nationalism , and a backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist posture is notable . in fact , macron took the leap into the west ’s unknown “ new politics , ” the terrain no longer defined entirely by competition among large center-right and center-left parties . like a christian democrat , he believes that the deepening of the european union must go hand in hand with the evolution of a genuinely european political space . but is politics really turning the page on traditional left-right cleavage ?
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear-armed rattling is a continuing combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer still recognize that the least bad military option – one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china assume responsibility for its hazardous neighbor is a chinese incursion , or regime change forced through china to launch one . that outcome , which would sharply shift east asian countries ’ strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not as unlikely as most people think . in a trumpian terms , this is the “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ” indeed , its very plausibility is one reason why it needs to be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners .
spiekermann , the global trafficking authority for our online identities for the purposes of targeted advertising , policy propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , stresses the need to burst down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum began discussing personal data as a new asset class ” in 2011 , ” she has been told by me , “ personal data markets have thrived at the idea that personal data markets might be the next-generation ‘ new oil ’ of the digital economy , just so politics seems to be at hand . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon , ” that harvard university and use our data for any purposes might think about , ” spiekermann says . as a result , “ over a thousand companies ” are now engaging in a digital information chain that spans data sets from any online activity and puts online or mobile users in roughly 36 seconds of their entry into the digital domain . “of data-management platforms like those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal particulates and socio-psychological profiles of about hundreds of millions of
but increased trade also can eliminate low-skill factory jobs and lower farm prices – outcomes that hurt the poor . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustments in the short term . it gives firms the poor access to a broader class of commodities , while providing firms with more diversified selection of inputs . in india , for example , the rate of poverty has declined more slowly in areas faced by rising foreign competition . given constraints on cross-sector labor mobility , stemming from barriers to skill acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , there are few options where such changes occur .
for kenya , a very public decline has come at a steep cost . but it has also shown that press freedom means much more than letting journalists say what they want , when they want them and how they want them to do so . in fact , kenyans need a similar means of reflection today . it also means holding media owners accountable . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions could most benefit from such a mirror , those with historically held it now believe that they had no alternative but to put it down .
the 2001 recession combined an inventory swing with investment slumped . the first is over ; the second , the result of overinvestment in high technology and telecommunications , sectors that were so essential during the late-90s boom , can last a lot longer . merely lowering interest rates did n’t and wo n’t , inducing firms to invest more in those sectors . the good news – and the wrong ones – is that the pace of technological change in these industries is rapid enough that much of the equipment might become obsolete well before worn off , or even just taking advantage of it , enables the new investment to start faster than it would otherwise . a substantial capacity overhang remains -- like the fiber optic rows that remain dark have yet to see any light passing through them .
as soon as the bureaucracy and the broad parameters of the talks are established by early next year , it could formally trigger a withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty . that , at least , is the formal plan . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another similar to “ rats ” in a sack , will have to come up with a bundle . by then , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 was marked by a student protests against the vietnam war . in warsaw , too , students protesting , but their cause was not the same as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to admit “ ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with “ viet cong , ” but rather in defending on their own countries with freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho ’s name , young poles threw their flowers under the monument of adam mickiewicz , the nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , written in praise of the “ collaboration ” struggle for freedom , had recently proclaimed both subversive and anti-soviet , and its performance at the national theater in warsaw shutting down . these are just a few of the differences between west and east european students in this springtime of rebellion ten years ago .
preliminary conclusions emerge from these studies will illuminate political debates – and likely annoy ideologues of both the extreme right and the extreme left . start , lustig argues in a recent paper with that world income inequality does not rise . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality that runs from the zero value of perfect equality to the top 100 of inequality ( one person receives all the income ) . the average gini score ( rather than weighted by the population ) in countries for which there are survey data declined slightly during 2000-2010 , from 39 to 38 . crucially , the figures are comparable across a large set of middle - and lower-income countries , and also with data accessible for advanced countries .
likewise , while policies that encourage firms to raise wages will boost household incomes and domestic consumption , rising wage increases may erode export competitiveness and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment . a final piece of the puzzle for china lies realism . with rebalancing policies on its own unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-run prosperity . the risk is that until reform measures take effect , the authorities may be relying on short-term stimulus to meet the growth target , aggravating resource misallocation , and structural vulnerability . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to sustain decent gdp growth of an estimated 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform .
it is worth recalling that to join the eu , hungary had to meet stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . after all , despots throughout history used the same tactic . but orbán is doing just that in the eu in 2017 . and , by closing off such an important us-supported institution , he can send the message that no one opposed it won . the fact that those high standards are now systematically eroded has created a paradox for the eu .
so long as it acts within its own powers , germany is in no position to veto it . question : is it thinking that the current economic crisis is perhaps the final step in what has become a general philosophical crisis of the west ? soros : i discussed these questions back in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism . soros : the ecb is a functioning institution . so i am hopeful that something really substantial might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors .
moreover , it is not as though a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or exacerbate poverty . indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of productivity growth has increased by an average of four . by moving away from a university-level universal eligibility system toward one that finds a more suitable fit for all post-college students , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . social mobility in france has not experienced any major change since 1991 . macron ’s revolution is on the move ; he is .
there is now a widespread perception that those engaged in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being caught and punished , regardless of their own social status . in addition to individual businesses , the entire value chains that contribute heavily to a country ’s gdp have also suffered from a sudden operation and a financial freeze . but , while many observers have targeted the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth remembering exactly what brazil stands for by exposing official corruption and punishing offenders . ongoing prosecutions have already changed the calculus for any business of an economy that thinks about violating public trust for private gain . reforming the relationship between brazil ’s public and private sectors can better the country ’s long-term economic performance .
nor do they feel a part of the great whole . even in the new member states , enthusiasm for a european family of democracy-promotion is cooling . many are turning their backs on one way or another . as the union races ahead , it appears that it has lost european citizens along the way . many are turning their backs on an entire project .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( presumably for the lifting of sanctions imposed by us president barack obama on russian firms ) . it was widely expected that trump ’s son would face impeachment no later than donald , jr. , had said so – but barr ’s announcement ruled out further prosecution . in addition , vice president donald trump ’s son , jr. , together with other top us campaign officials , had met in trump tower , with ties to the kremlin , which had vowed dirt on clinton . yet trump himself remains vulnerable to a us-initiated investigations or handed down to federal and state prosecutors outside of washington . another prominent escapee from trump ’s special attorney general has been trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used the role of his white house , particularly on the foreign policy ( in which he ’d had no experience ) to attend his family ’s need for funding to pay out huge civilian debt .
backroom dealings and violence continue to rule the day . in fact , america and its allies simply do n’t like the outcome of arab democracy , which all too often generates governments that are inherently nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s own oil interests . when the baltic states move in that direction , america simply ignores electoral outcomes ( as it did in 2006 , for example , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . and the american people can not stop the downward spiral of violence in the middle east . at the same time , the american people can not stop the downward spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world is stirring itself against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , especially africa and south-asia . an estimated 34 million more people are living with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked for early deaths . worldwide , in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of adults are afflicted . a pandemic has claimed 19 million lives and caused 13 million orphans . whereas first identified in the context of an american as the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million others suffer from it in africa ; another 6 million in asia .
in most cases , the laws for skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . as a result , the sky is usually conceptualized . airliners and warplanes are operating in “ mastering ” air close to the ground , while nationality means to matter less the higher one you pass . oceans belong to everyone except those close to the land masses , which is administered in a manner similar to that of a country ’s waterbound borders . the fragile treaties that cover it are mostly enforced by few nations that can afford to place assets on a high scale .
in fact , very few other trends pose an even larger threat to global stability . and our current era is not a fourth industrial revolution ; it is just the beginning of the digital age , and the end of the industrial age altogether . almost all societies have become heavily reliant on the internet , a world ’s leading slice of infrastructure , and also infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of everything ” game . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cybercriminals , and other malign actors already exploiting each other .
in china , most soes have survived , because central planners have emphasized economic autarky regardless of cost . jamaica , say , is not producing frozen salmon or hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus fruit and tourism delivers far more certain profits . likewise , wto membership will compel the government to cease discriminating in favor with soes and against capital-intensive industries , including agriculture . the same wto-induced secular adjustment underlies the decline of both steel and textiles in advanced countries like america . china ’s industrialization strategy in the pre-reform era rejected the notion of a “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy generates some goods more effectively than others because of factors like natural resources , geography , and climate .
as a result , italians have opted for an unconventional coalition whose agenda combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . yet , even before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically-adjusted fiscal deficit – unlike its underlying debt position – was often rather restrained in comparison with the rest of europe , as were other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . still , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until that year have failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . as a result , italians have opted for an unconventional coalition , whose agenda combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist far right . there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework , which is locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation and high debt .
learning what a country is ( or can be ) good for making produces is a key challenge in economic development . stimulating foreign investment or liberalizing all and then waiting for things to improve wo n’t work . an effective strategy needs to accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional fields and the weed out projects and investments that fail . for this , governments must deploy both the carrot and the stick . a carrot is necessary because there is large social value in discovering ; for example , that slice of flowers , or the engine of soccer , or one of computer software , could be produced at a low cost ; because this knowledge can orient investments by others .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the effect of a cyclical rebound effect , an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real gdp – that would produce us real gdp growth to an average annual rate of 2.6 % – significantly higher than the 1.9 % rate for the decade ending in 2009 . the effect of a dollar decline over the coming decade could be equally important . but not all of the extra output produced over the coming decade will remain american . if a real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by about 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of that dollar decline reflects the fall in us import prices , the increased cost of us imports would reduce america ’s real incomes by about 0.4 % annually . if the us trade deficit were to reduce by 3 % of the gdp between now and the end of the decade , a implied rise in us exports and the fall in imports would make the output available for us consumption and investment to an estimated 0.3 % .
america ’s second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders on the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as currency holders . the holdouts argued that if the new bonds were serviced in full ( as they were ) , the equal treatment required by the holdouts should receive the full amount owed ( including not only interest but also principal ) . in fact , it was this ruling that the us supreme court recently upheld . under the court order , argentina might not pay holders of additional bonds unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as an intermediary to make payments on argentina . as a result , argentina has to either pay holdouts full or default on any new bonds .
china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project for the construction of a sprawling complex roughly the size of monaco on land in colombo , a “ port city ” that will become a major stop on china ’s nautical-mile “ road . ” that ’s important , because a new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . to be sure , india remains suspicious of china ’s behavior . but china is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry . zhou bo , an honorary trainer with the pla academy of military sciences , admits that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter the political and economic landscape of the indian ocean , ” while presenting china as a strong “ benign ” power .
yet sharif was an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india a newly affable leader . the modi government also adopted the upa-proposed consumer goods and services tax , stalled by opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s own state of gujarat ) . indian citizens who thought they had voted for change are beginning to wonder whether the bjp was simply reprising hindu governments ’ policies . indian citizens , believing that they voted for change , are starting to wonder whether the bjp was simply reprising the pis government ’s policies . last but not least , sharif was an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india a newly affable leader .
a regional agenda must be devised to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy involving energy and water policy , arms control and reduction . we should look to the helsinki process to show us to “ retrieve what has been lost . ” europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been fine . with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror ” – ” with the need for a conference to discuss security and military matters combined with the stability charter – has become urgent . in all of the conflicts , human rights are among the first casualties ; and , in the middle east , human dignity degradation has now failed to provide international conventions agreed over several generations .
for example , when the imf rightly suggested that , in the aftermath of argentina ’s crisis , a better path of debt restructuring was needed ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , the us vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed an agreement to limit bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . they did what they could to ensure that no meaningful reform emerged during a crisis , with the knowledge that the post-crisis momentum of reform would dissipate . they were more right than they knew back then . who , after all , might have anticipated when president bill clinton would follow america ’s lead in undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestation ?
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s governance . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted on chinese soil . and to attendees , hong kong ’s showdown reflected rising frustration , not just with china ’s leaders , but also with their own . on the surface , very little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to china 20 years ago .
to pick goals and articulate them in a vision that everyone needs not just to solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their own choices . leaders must get the question right before they propose answers . what plays well with one group might not sit well with another . they must be able to judge reality in an accurate way . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also needs to be an effective diagnosis of the situation that the group faces .
here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . sixth , sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments . but , by making the business and investment climate worse , economic sanctions are taking their toll primarily on the private sector . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control supplies of strategic commodities , given the scarcity that they cause . last but not least , sanctions are supposedly efficient at containing nuclear proliferation .
internally , almost all of these countries had very clear ideas about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and protection from the return of the ottoman empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union made sense . nothing of the sort applies to the crisis zones of the middle east . no power anywhere within or outside of the region is willing and able to implement a barest vision of a new regional order , or even a vision for a part of it . central and eastern europe after 1989 , although a high intriguing reference to the analysts of the arab revolutions , is not an adequate reference point , for the region ’s new domestic and foreign order arising from a change of external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power .
after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , america ’s federal reserve has started a long march backward on normalization . it has now taken the first step toward returning its forward benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate – to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint to america ’s economy . indeed , it is a dangerous fallacy . a supermajority of financial-market participants , for their part , applaud this strategy . in fact , it is a dangerous fallacy .
moreover , the buildup of risk within the financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a couple of years ( as recently as a governor of office has expired ) . de gregorio ’s views are different from those of many of his peers in other countries , because he sees clear the risks in letting banks become bigger and apply what he calls smart ” strategies that require considerable leverage . higher leverage generates macroeconomic risk – not least fiscal balances when implicit guarantees must be taken into account . the danger for central banks stems from the fact that the implicit subsidies provided to major financial institutions are not as measured in any budget . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of debt , the vulnerability of shocks increases .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny on what russian president vladimir putin is up to now in syria , and why . much of the analysis , although narrowly focused on short-term issues and might be too negative when assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences . russia ’s bomb and missiles are now raining down on a array of armed groups that have ramped up fighting syrian government forces , which has given the regime the breathing space that russia ’s intervention was intended to provide . what we do know is that putin has decided to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . just as bad as the assad ’s government is , and as much as it must respond for , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to a regime collapse .
using data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( a log value added on the vertical graph axis below ) tends to decline as the income level rises ( shown by a log of value on a horizontal axis ) . this might be because richer countries observe rules better , make them less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise , or some combination of the two . this may be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trading framework . each blue dot on graph represents a wto member economy , with a robust black line depicting the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . the data pattern is reasonably self-evident : as a country becomes richer , fewer anti-endowment or anti-dumping cases do not .
most bets are on britain formally exiting the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate on a final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft ” exit , but it will probably be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . john maynard keynes put the matter point well : “ words ought to be a little savage , ” for they are the assault on “ unthinking , ” he wrote in 1933 . if the trajectory of brexit turns out to be a good illustration of a twin character – and function as a matter of politics . the may brexit referendum decision would be honored , but its crude economic repercussions would be delayed : a triumph of pragmatism over ideology .
europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed the shoulders . the atmosphere might not have been closer to a tranquil day : the former royals in the rolling hills of afghanistan near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians held the annual meeting in tackling the middle east . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east ’s road map , was at the center of attention . on the opening night , a senior german government minister , himself a bit deeply implicated in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects , displaying great sensitivity both to israeli and palestinian concerns . the novelty this year was the presence of representatives from post-saddam iraq , among them an official from kurdish regional government and a high-level shi'a proxy .
the last ten days of ramadan are i ‘ tikaf ’ ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open districts . and ramadan , now underway , is mobilization-friendly . last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite a almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets . observant muslims gather sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including a short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyam ( another late-night prayer ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers . after sunset , a common program exists .
as africa ’s preeminent development-finance institution , the african development bank will support our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthening social-safety nets , and laying the groundwork for a robust economic recovery . just as we finance infrastructure and other such projects in the region , we will push for integration with disenfranchised regions and rural areas . with an emerging democratic dispensation , us partners with whom we can engage with them on governance issues . we are broadening our consultations with governments and other actors to cooperate more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and the media , as well as with academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industry and sectoral associations . no country or region can genuinely aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without dragging all segments of its population and without giving a voice to everyone .
the fate of the rest of the world depends on reactions to the unfolding financial turmoil . even many of the poorest countries seemed to have rejoined at long last , posting strong growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and boosting fiscal revenue . while the figures were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seemed to think back then , they diverted the attention away from the shaky fundamentals of newfound prosperity . asset contraction and stock market contraction will no doubt dampen america ’s household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . the increased need for measures to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a victorious formula ? ”
manila – food shortages are a distant memory in asia ’s many peoples . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could become a painful reality of life again . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and its population is projected to grow to five billion by 2050 , an increase of more than 900 million people . because of its expanding middle class , the region will likely account for about half of the increase in annual gdp and poultry consumption , and over three-quarters of the rise in fish consumption between now and 2030 . and by that point , more than 60 % of total global cereal demand in the developing world will come from south and east asia .
what america needs right now is a better explanation for its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east ’s mounting problems . but , whether america is engaged or not , it needs a policy . syria is a case in point . the situation there , predicted by every pundit around , has metastasized , and is threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war . this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage with every problem .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . by now , everyone , from households to businesses to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : data . with attackers becoming increasingly agile and innovative , arming an increasingly heterogeneous array of weapons , cyber-attacks are occurring at a faster pace and greater sophistication than ever before . at the same time , the scale of the challenge should n’t be underestimated . the question , then , is how that could be accomplished .
integrating migrants makes a lot of sense ; but , in the troubled eu , it is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in the troubled lands with the aid of a generation of emigrants who first transfer resources and then return on their own . viewed from a perspective on which such truths provides , europe ’s eastward enlargement ; for example , it is highly desirable not because it may generate migration from the new member states to the old one . in that way , more portugals and herelands can be formed as the wealth of already prosperous regions becomes sustained . that is not the only way forward , let alone the right policy of the future . many of the consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least more rational debate .
a cost is miniscule : reaching close to 80 % of the world ’s population , or leaving so undernourished children , would require a combined pledge of about $ 60 million annually , while still leaving an estimated $ 1 billion annually . providing iron and iodized salt is another top fund for investment . fortifying these products with iron costs as little as $ 0.12 per person per year . we know that iron deficiency results in cognitive and developmental problems . for $ 286 million we could obtain iodized salaried , and fortified fundamental food figures to reach 80 % of those in worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated at around nine-fold this sum .
even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient traits – might have become viable with the attention of policymakers . the largest scope for renewed private investment is in the capital-intensive industries , in which the government has a major presence as regulator . standardization and liberalization in european telecoms has underpinned 9 % - of-gdp growth in value added and productivity over this period , compared to america ’s 6 % growth . many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , which means that weak demand in the short term will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . even if european countries were to close only 10 % of gdp , the impact could be more than € 360 billion in additional investment , offsetting the € 354 billion gap in private-sector investment from 2007 to 2011 .
as a result , the differential between growth in emerging and advanced economies aggregated from imf figures , and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in a emerging group has been shrinking considerably . the question , then , is whether the underlying growth differential will remain as low by it today . those who believe that it will typically rely on three arguments , all of which require some coping . first , they argue that much convergence has already occurred in production . indeed , after averaging three percentage points for two decades , and climbing to just 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential dropped to just 2.5 last year , and is expected to amount to just 1.5 this year .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards imposed a high degree of moral hazard and created perverse incentives by governments and market participants alike . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity means that the european union ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all of those advocating risk sharing . these include high levels of public and private debt ; weak institutions ; over-regulated markets ; and ever-incomplete balance-sheet corrections by corporations and banks . under the eurozone ’s latest reforms , the principle that those assuming risk should be liable to be liable to grow was replaced by a principle of joint liability ; implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale in case of a crisis .
but 2004 was also a bitter failure for russian president vladimir putin , who had tried to bring his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by supporting massive voter manipulation . hoped-for disruption of the past did not materialize , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders had blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . the failure was a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . indeed , the formation of a new eurasian union was a key part of its platform . then came the failure of the orange revolution that brought yanukovych to power in a free and fair election , and in 2012 putin chose himself for a third presidential term in russia .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 , seven years of capital flight have come . the third “ era ” era occurred during 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , it is now a third “ sudden stop ” of capital flows to emerging markets . perhaps as long as we have some causal theory that could explain such periodicity to international capital flows . indeed , are some kinds of data points and biblical parable enough to achieve the doomsday hypothesis , which is severe ?
in return , they would secure the votes for the federal government to assume and repay the states ’ defaulted debts . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than it is today . jefferson and madison did not want the country ’s capital to stand in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to encourage moving it into an area carved from virginia or maryland . jefferson and madison did n’t want the country ’s capital to stand in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to encourage moving it into an area carved from virginia or maryland . a responsible fiscal state emerged out of this grand compromise .
digital ids could play an even more expansionary role in how individuals and institutions interact with one another . digitally id systems that succeed in driving a high adoption could generate a significant economic value for individuals , companies , and government alike . as we paper in a new report , digital ids have the potential to reduce fraud rates , trimmed customer patterns , foster financial inclusion , and deepen savings and credit for under-banked customers . they can also spur development , by enabling the digital talent matching and augmented worker verification , resulting in higher labor-force participation . digital ids could even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems .
the first revolution of 1917 toppled czar nicholas i , creating an interim government that , headed by a socialist leader alexander kerensky , turned out to be a transitory blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” ” ” played by the old order to continue cheating of workers and peasants . but the second revolution , which brought lenin and his bolsheviks to power , produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to incarling accusations of treachery . if the revolution continues apace themselves , it diffuses into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and recurring cycles of violence . but if the revolution is aborted , its leaders will bury like empty windbags .
moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial autonomy in its monetary-policy role . in fact , the crisis has demonstrated that , yes , we need this simple talk . below it stands , there is an opportunity to create a unified banking supervisor , combining the comptroller functions of the currency office , office of thrift supervision , and regulatory functions of regional feds . this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly about developing the financial system as a whole without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in its care work . in a perfect world , one would add to us treasury banking regulators ; but i recognize that , at that point , i began to trample on the cherished features of the american constitution !
in india , for example , there is fear of being crushed by small-scale mom-and-pop retailers when wal-mart is entering its market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect its small vendors without stifling competition . say , the government might impose zoning laws ; helps small shopkeepers find specialized niches on the market ; or it could provide skills training to displaced workers . asian policymakers need to remember how they successfully developed their industries through competition . the survival of artisanal vendors should not be used as an excuse to introduce or uphold business regulation that ultimately protects the incumbent wealthy .
toulouse – as long as history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its punishing sadistic twist – it also punishes those who learn through it too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises translate into vulnerabilities of a regulatory regime founded on a set of lessons learned from previous crises . today ’s crisis is no exception ; then , will . first , we thought that a major reason why banks fail is that depositors panic is not that a major reason depositors panic is that the banks are actually in danger of failing . the postwar system of financial regulation stemmed on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s .
yet the prospects for some are shaky , at best . an american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs compelling each other to do so . for china , its greatest prize is the bilateral infrastructure investment treaty ( bit ) . under practical terms , a us-china bit would make it easier for chinese actors to invest and operations in the us , and to increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets . such an arrangement would amount to near-term boon to xi , as it would represent america ’s vote of confidence vis-à-vis china ’s struggling economy .
in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how a 20-foot rise in sea levels would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the report also revealed the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming could cause the gulf stream , thereby turning europe into another siberia . what makes the ipcc simply and tersely tells us is that this scenario – too vividly depicted in the hollywood movie the day after tomorrow – is deemed “ very unlikely . ” this is especially interesting , given that it fundamentally rejects one of the harshest scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . the ipcc ’s reports make it clear that the exaggerations of that magnitude do not have some basis in scientific science , though clearly they cowed people , and perhaps triumph to prevail in academy awards .
for starters , lowering the costs of us imports will raise chinese households ’ purchasing power and access to those products that can improve the quality of their lives . chinese firms will also benefit from a lower cost for foreign-made parts and equipment that boosts their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers may end up increasing their exports . it is important to note that , as china can steadily shrink the bilateral trade surplus against any of its particular partner , it could well have additional advantages . finally , the international import expo will complement china ’s other market-oriented measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms . and , even as the import expo expands , rather than diminishes , the country ’s overall trade surplus , it may well have other benefits .
throughout the west , many people are questioning whether or not russia will continue to use its natural gas as a means of putting economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgian , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet states is based on the doctrine of the “ liberal empire , ” ” ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control of key economic players across the ex-soviet republics ’s territories by acquiring their own assets . against this background , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to imply that the “ new russian dream ” empire should be constructed by pure economic means , excluding all forcible action against other nations . naturally , a key role for this model has been to deliver energy delivery to the post-soviet states . exploitation of the “ energy weapon , ” the ” ” ” however , is not just a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russia ’s foreign policy .
cambridge – the united states congress is very close to enacting major us tax reform . most important , the plan ’s ’s ’s corporate tax rate is lowering the effective rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the highest among all oecd countries to at one of the lowest – and allowing american companies to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits without paying additional american tax . the regulatory opponents point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , which adds another $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . i dislike budget deficits , and i have long warned of their dangerous effects . nonetheless , i am convinced that the economic benefits implied by corporate tax changes will outweigh any adverse supply-side effects from increased debt .
while such actions are typically justified as policies for boosting domestic demand , they end up fueling a surrogate , lower-grade currency war . the us needs a group of major surplus economies that constitutes “ g major ” that announces monetary policies in a coordinated fashion . to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have a good reason to attempt to support some inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity , urged the bank of japan to get involved again .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is the observance that during the post-world war ii era ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to just 2.5 % under republican control . when one moves back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , that mismatch is even bigger . the results are similar , even with one assigns responsibility for the first three months , or the first few quarters , of a president ’s terms in office . the gap in economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with those disparities clearly above the statistical threshold .
venezuelans would care about nothing better than they would be the ones to decide their own destiny , but democratic means to do so are being denied them . terms in office have expired for a july prosecutor-general , parliamentarians from the national electoral commission , and the supreme court ’s office justices , but no successors have been nominated , owing to maduro ’s unwillingness to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint clerics to his picks . it would have been thuposterous to tell ukrainian demonstrators facing government storms troopers to the mere tsar and bear it , without any external solidarity or support . it ’s only as thuposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators . indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , has been arrested on ludicrous charges of inciting crime .
classical socialism is a progeny of liberal internationalism to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . true , far-left parties also shaped advances since the post-crisis slump . but history suggests that nationalist nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . yet , faced with large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism has become precisely the point at hand . it is easy to see why .
london – “ what if this is ‘ as good as it gets ’ ? ” many now wonder whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it is getting for some time to come . determining the validity of such fears requires an understanding of which is driving china ’s economic slowdown . at a recent g-20 finance ministers meeting in shanghai , the participants issued a question of the same question as , and not exactly , concerning medium-term expectations of weak global growth . jack nick asks , as he walks through a psychiatrist his waiting room in the huler movie . determining the validity of such fears requires an understanding of what is driving china ’s economic slowdown .
the internet is also disseminating the templates of what genuine democracy looks like either instantly and global in nature . not surprisingly , people use this technology in ways that indicate they have very little interest in cordoned off to cross conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalizations , nationalizations , nationalizations , nationalisms , or religious identity . the internet is also disseminating the templates of what genuine democracy looks like either instantly and global in the internet . this agenda is in direct conflict with the interests of global capital and the governments that have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . it is a conflict that might be assumed to be heighten dramatically in the summer of 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas from occupy wall street to occupy moscow gain additional cohesion .
but the three of the european union ’s four largest economies , france , italy , and the united kingdom , all have large debt levels and annual deficits that highlight even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . that , in turn , is a worrying prospect for everyone . when interest rates rise , as surely they must , the costs of mutualizing debt will require higher tax rates , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . firms now fear that rising deficits will lead to higher future taxes , further discouraging investment . a rising level of domestic debt has absorbs funding that would otherwise be available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment .
they have pioneered new retail institutions , from the ministry shops to the box shops . they have also tended to do disproportionately when learning professions – such as medicine , law , and accounting – that are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fact that jews have long been a significant minority in cases of discrimination is sometimes given as a reason for their propensity to dedicate themselves to commerce , finance , and occupation . but not all minorities have necessarily been subject to such discrimination will necessarily succeed under conditions of marketplace competition . the fastest growing sectors of the us economy since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely classified as “ service industries , ” ” ” ” often involving the dissemination of information and entertainment activities in which jews were especially prominent , from publishing to vaudeville , and from movies to commercial sports .
so far , sustainable infrastructure has been funded largely by the multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . initially , vert-infra covers four subsectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transportation , and buildings , with a special emphasis on project projects in urban areas . the framework , called “ vision for an environmentally responsible transition , infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) , aims to help unlock project-finance pipeline and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to large investments by institutional investors worldwide . crowding in private capital therefore holds the key to closing the investment gap . to help scale up development and finance sustainable infrastructure in low – and in middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework , developed by the who , a single planet lab working on financing for sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member .
today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and , unlike in 2001 ) , america appears to be weakened crucially . moreover , a new superpowers with their own set of interests – namely , china and india – have come to the international scene . without us support from china and india , america ’s middle east policy may no longer succeed ; but that support is given only half-heartedly , if at all . a success of america ’s policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able to make a major contribution . in this tangled manifestation of regional wars , crises , and conflict , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a “ ticking time bomb ” – and a multitude of new dynamite is unfolding throughout the region .
true , the new economy is hard on those sitting on its backsides and living at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers . this , however , is no longer the larger-looking story on the us . creative destruction ( augmented by economic openness and technology ) is a sweeping world . skeptics keep arguing that competition and technology wreak havoc on a society ’s harmony ; that creating inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , this gives a chance to energetic people formerly on the sidelines .
the cancers either grew so slowly that they did not pose a problem , or would have been successfully treated if detected clinically later ( or were so aggressive that little could have been done ) . the next step in reevaluation of cancer-screening took place last year , when researchers at the dartmouth medical policy institute announced that the cost of breast cancers ’ screening was often minimized , and that the benefits were greatly exaggerated . indeed , even mammogram ( almost 40 million are received annually in america ) that detects cancer did not necessarily save lives . then-dartmouth researchers found that of an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us alone , the test did not help 120,000-134,000 of the afflicted women . chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer have received a similar , albeit less definitive , criticism .
a new study argues that there is now more than 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , with an estimated 80 % chance that it will reach 9,500 billion people by 2100 . sub-saharan africa , persistently the world ’s poorest region , will be its primary engine of demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this development engine : improved women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for an estimated $ 215 million of women worldwide , a substantial portion of them in africa , who want to avoid pregnancy , would cost about $ 3.6 trillion annually . this is important , because an ever-growing population might be an even bigger problem than was previously believed .
contrary to the mexican , china , or the russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not the main source of the current conflict . after all , the fundamental problem in iraq is not jobs ; rather , it is really bad . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . what is the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . this is a struggle for power , not economic justice or a better life . state-owned enterprises , too , should be free to offer , but they should receive no favors .
such measures may ultimately be necessary , but they wo n’t help georgian survive as an independent democracy . that was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , but mccain does not seem to recognize it . on russia since its georgian invasion , obama , and his running mate , joe biden ( whom he was the first republican congress to visit georgian after the invasion ) , emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence in the face of an ongoing russian campaign against it . moreover , even after georgian outrage , there are matters of common interest , like energy , climate change , and iran , all of which the west and the kremlin must cooperate . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia by means as expelling it from the g-8 .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
a central authority is gradually being eroded as the country continues to splinter into its ethnic and sectarian region , with its de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . in libya , the implosion of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime sent the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority . the south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectories toward independence , yemen , toward yet another secession struggle , almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification . the south remains injustices , whereas the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to an ill-consolidated government in tripoli . meanwhile , in yemen , the option of adequate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts a number of seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a faltering economy .
london – in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and spur economic growth . but that consensus proved to be a short-lived mistake , with soon public-sector economic interventions to be viewed as the root cause of the crisis and thus needed to reverse them . in europe , especially governments were lamentable to sted their high debts even when private-sector debt , not public borrowing , caused the collapse . many were instructed , instead of spurring growth with countercyclical policies . but that consensus proved to be a grave mistake .
in pasok , the greek socialist party , which i lead , is undertaking far-reaching reforms in this direction . likewise , a socialist international goal is a world governed not by free markets but by free people . that means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and those disabled , and forging citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide and the knowledge they need to decide well . we must fight exclusion from our own political parties , just as we are fighting exclusion from our societies .
after all , shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage in production in general and petrochemicals , particularly . in europe , unlike europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . quantitative easing has boosted asset values , along with other technologies . the banking and household sectors have made some progress in deleveraging . indeed , the euro could devalue the eu altogether .
nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than a humiliating prospect of feel unable to resist foreign predation . even as the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , too , many came to admire in america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to help it . still , by the madang a’70s , when i first departed from china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was not emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ” this divided attitude meant that china tended to react in ways that are inconsistent as it is impassioned and unpredictable , especially as its own pride piqued . nothing was more deft to china ’s new nationalists than the notion of an enfeebler and aggrieved china ’s victimized by foreign exploitation .
even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is a lot of hype – akin to the gilets jaunshes and stock bubbles of the past . third , the us is facing steeply rising fossil-fuel prices as a developing country ’s growth drives up demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas depletes it . shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional fields do . and they are all environmentally dirty to boot , for example . sure , we may be able to find more fossil-fuel use , but at far higher cost and at far greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other kinds of damage .
london – the united kingdom ’s mid-term elections is polling a bit more than a month away , but already the campaign appears to have crested with the us steadily , rolling implacably forward , but with little evidence of genuine agitation – or even large – motion on the polls . support for the two major contenders , labour party and the ruling conservative party , seem stuck in low to-mid 30s . the conservatives hope that the administration ’s record on the economy will convince undecided voters to break up in their favor late february in the campaign . meanwhile , labour seems to hope for who-knows-what to turn the tide , while preserving their collective fingers have been crossed that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party threatens to overhaul the governing council . perhaps they are right as such ; it is deserved .
former us president george w. bush , for example , might decide to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for a number of reasons : its strategic advantage , its humanitarian concerns , and even its competition with its own father . for the most part , the us has not included weapons of mass destruction ; rather , it has become a signatory to weapons of mass destruction . the second insight from psychological research , summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , concerns the role played in the decision-making process . recent laboratory research shows that our particular thinking devise , ex ante , compelling rationales for a number of decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously available . is this really an american tradition rather than interested in what will happen to others ?
other factors besides trade policy also matter . geographic location is also important because things like distance from the markets , bad climates , and poor soils impede economic growth in the developing world . protecting property rights , civilian and political liberties , protection from random levels of sexual violence is among other important factors when promoting economic growth . but this makes implementing open trade policies all the more critical , because they are the best tools available to compensate for a bad card that nature sometimes addresses . fiscal restraint , as reflected by low government consumption relative to income growth , is also important .
durham , north carolina , – my day begins with the computer world and end its hot chocolate . in short , my life – like everyone un member – is enabled , enriched , and extended by a wide variety of plants and their derivatives products . in between , i consume a wide variety of food and pharmaceuticals , including my own daily 81 mg of aspirin . but the forms of biodiversity on which us all depend are under threat , as human actions devastates and other plant-rich habitats are being put on hold . a benito orchid orchid enlivens my study and , through a window , i catch a glimpse into my green garden .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is just the latest round in a cycle that has replicated so many times across the last 40 years that it would look mundane were not as dangerous . the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure thrifts on israel to stop settlement activity in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then gather even more power to expand palestinian land , build more solely on jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes before the so-called “ freeze ” has come into effect . in the end , world pressures subsides , and a freeze fails to materialize . in the end , the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes the joke while that happens .
san francisco – there is a large difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to maintain “ stable prices ” – like enel ated in the us federal reserve ’s system of action – and the fed ’s own self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , to 50 , or even 100 years , from now . after a five-year time ago , the price tag would be a whopping $ 724 . on the other hand , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that a $ 100 might buy today would cost $ 122 by the end of the decade . so , how is it that us policymakers have managed to replace the former ?
as liberal myself , i share those values but recognize that insisting on them as a matter of policy ultimately undermines the interests of the migrants themselves . many in europe argue that this approach discriminates not only against the weakest migrant group , but also leads to a brain drain from the countries that need a highly skilled workforce . skills-biased immigration gives rise to an analogous dilemma . however , once again , one must first scrutinize the trade-off . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether the newcomers are despairing for the job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) – or by not being admitted at all .
such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when a apathetic or a frightened public , but also when an obvious stability-oriented advanced guard , such as a powerful political party that elects and controls . instead , the reforms decreed from a high majority without had any grassroots support – and thus with no lasting durability . all of us had been direct appeals to the streets , as well as to the masses rather than the encouragement of genuine social consensus . as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which presidential elections are the sole political question .
throughout the 2006 french student protests , france ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare unfavorably with rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , sweden , and germany . and the eurozone-wide 20.8 % rate of 20.8 % far exceeds the 8.7 % ratio . likewise , greece ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio is only 13 % . but , while the eurozone ’s youth-unemployment rate has been rising since 2009 , its ratio has remained the same ( though both markedly exceed pre-2008 levels ) . to be sure , neither youth unemployment nor 19 % implies any grounds for complacency .
but there is a third possibility : global demand for us reserve assets may subside . reserve status on the sdr is long-held ambition , though the idea has never gained much traction . alternatively , it could eventually become a new reserve supplier of reserve assets . that link could be direct , so long as the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or even indirect , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account is expanded , special drawing rights ( sdrs ) become a favored asset of reserve managers , as the renminbi is now in the sdr currency basket . in this scenario , the money supply would align with that of the world ’s fast-growing regions .
but it is the peripheral countries that most likely will benefit . trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including by reducing the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and higher military spending , and he appears likely to face rapidly rising america ’s fiscal deficits and huge short-term demand growth . with america ’s economy already operating at close to full capacity ( with unemployment at less than 5 % ) , higher imports will be needed , and a stronger american dollar will be required to meet that demand . all of this will do well for europe , for which america remains the leading export market .
princeton – over the past century , the economic-policy debate has been locked in orbit around respective roles and virtues of state and markets . does market control the state , in the sense that it sets limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially required roles – such as fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? this old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its own debt crisis . the same question is dividing america ’s policy in june to november ’s presidential and congressional elections .
british negotiators would then react to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory logic by attempting to make the process as painful for the rest of the eu . this implies that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own self-fulfilling prophecy . the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start batting europeans from their own game by revitalizing its own automobile industry , or by making it its own wine to rival french and italian exporters . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already believes that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit will hurt europeans far more than it hurts britons .
when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic spending may rebound , but saving rates will not and should not return to zero . fiscal stimulus , in the form of clogged deficit-reduction efforts , might help tide the economy above , while structural adjustment and competitive expansion in the tradable sector pursue . otherwise , the domestic demand shortfall would be smoothed out when the stimulus ended . the excessive domestic demand that underlay that evolution is now gone permanently again . but , domestically , stimulus , too , is not the answer .
for president putin , it makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now and to be repaid again for his helpful silence by the likes of america ’s successor , iraqi arrangements concerning us repayment of russia ’s debts . the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraqi and iranian underlines not only mr. putin ’s glorified pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . that contrast also with the fundamental distinction between iran , the historic state of the nation , and the artificial creation that is in iraq . if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from a narrow perspective on russia ’s own interests , whereas the ensuing mess will pose a problem for america and its traditional allies , rather than with russia . so america ’s objective of regime change in baghdad does not look too bad , even if it could not be informally supported .
indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its own minorities reflected a nationalistic consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s stance toward its own minorities reflected a nationalistic consensus , in which the bulk of what was then the opposition was involved . a large majority of kosovars would find talking to serbia of improved relations difficult if serbia does not undergo some sort of “ de-nazification ” process so far . regardless of the fact that milosevic was exacerbated by the tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s serb ethnic albanians were genuinely popular among the serbs . president kostunica ’s refusal , so far to even discuss putting the internationally indicted war criminals on trial , is not an indication to the palestinians .
in the end , the economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from the international terror and turn over megrahi – also another suspects , lamin fhima , later acquitted , in the face of the scottish tribunal in camp zeist in holland . furthermore , libya formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims ’ families , and abandoning its weapons of mass destruction . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hopes of a warmer embrace of western leaders ( and a flood of investments ) , the relationship has remained plagued by mutual suspicions and frequent backsliding . yet there has never been conclusive evidence that megrahi has been involved in lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts still believe that he was tried by the us using fraudulent evidence and that a cia bribed witness .
without them , the continent has more often experienced rising unemployment , widening inequalities , reduced social disorder , and , ultimately , conflict and chaos . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 trillion working-age citizens , more than either india or china . with the right skills training , skill , and job opportunity , this enormous labor force could deliver rapid and sustainable economic growth for the entire region . that experience has motivated him to establish his dangote academy , a center for talent development that aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . initiatives like these are critical to aligning education with economic development and boosting prosperity .
first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes away women ’s “ soft ” inferiority . as a result , women are deprived of their core rights and liberties . second , there is a powerful political incentive to remove women ’s rights . the husband of another young woman , aisha , cut off her nose and ears when she fled . violence against women in afghanistan persists , for a variety of reasons .
but entering the european economic and monetary union was meant to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals like productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness . at first , events played out as planned . during greece ’s accession to the eurozone , its economy stabilized . both inflation and the fiscal deficit fell rapidly ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government imposed an ambitious deficit-reduction package . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 – and stayed around that level until 2007 .
in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined a clean arctic alliance to launch an arctic commitment . other shipping companies have emphasized the need for regulations to maintain a level playing field . the momentum toward an hfo phase-out in the arctic is build . the danish shipowners ’ partnership and the arctic highway hurtigruten are just two players calling for tighter regulation or outright prohibition . for its part , the european parliament has already broadly supported such a move .
for his part , he has done one thing already : resolving the cuban missile crisis . and his motivating gift was unmatched ; indeed , he outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy . in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders i had met ; the other two – former united nations secretary general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – are also either an african or a african-american . in africa , no great figure has been offered since the death of south african president nelson mandela , who combined the courage , authority , and magnanimity on the graceful abundance of persons . like the world cup , he has done one great thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis .
some steps , including the elimination of america ’s trade embargo , are prohibited by helms-burton act , adopted by the us congress in 1996 . cuba was one of the imf ’s more than 40 original members during the cold war era . it was involved with much of the while preliminary plans for the 1944 bretton woods conference , and had an active delegation there . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 original members ; under the influence of the us and china . it was involved in much of the un ’s preliminary plans for the 1944 bretton woods conference and had an active delegation there .
moreover , they derive the credibility that comes with a poor desire to be re-elected , either because their term in office was limited in advance , or because they are known to prefer a quiet academic life . it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure government officials ’ success . indeed , many of my harvard ’s colleagues would have made dire policymakers , owing to a lack of management , management , or other interpersonal skills . technocrats may well play a useful role as honest brokers , when traditional politicians have somehow become disenfranchised or parties are deadlocked . and many outstanding political leaders , such as both george washington and dwight eisenhower , have not been intellectuals .
today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial extension , and urban development – vitally important to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 – is achieved without adequate regard for disasters risk . decision-makers must recognize that none of these things as natural disasters do occur ; only the catastrophic impact of exposure on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . in this sense , climate-change forecasts should challenge policymakers and business leaders again to calibrate their perceptions of exposures and catastrophe risk . in the coming decades , the disaster-related costs will skyrocket . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which devastated 11 countries ’ coastlines , caused more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – 168 governments have agreed on the hfa framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-risk-reduction plan .
while that event did n’t live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to curb nationally determined contributions ” by 2020 , ” ” it did nothing to offer a platform to a new generation of climate action and human-rights advocates . yet natural climate solutions continued to attract relatively fewer attention , and even fewer financing . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . fortunately , that may be starting to change now . just two years ago , the nature-conservancy scientists and partners published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change .
to ensure that iran continues on its path toward international engagement – thereby protecting the kind of nuclear deal that trump is not eager to defend – rouhani ’s administration will need to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , it will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran does not stage a shia liberation movement . but trump will not make it easy for rouhani to do so . just a couple of weeks ago , trump ’s administration was spurred to admit that rouhani was fulfilling its role in the nuclear deal . indeed , iranians ’ display of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the ghost behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged .
but the damage it has done will extend far beyond the suffering caused by the hundreds of innocent individuals locked up under a false pretenses . those cases will end up collapsing under the weight of their collective reach . the hope that turkey has at last shedding its authoritarian misuse and become a stable democracy is to lie in tatters . the mainstream independent media do n’t even tell the inconsistencies for fear of luring either the government or the gülen network . ludicrous cases continue , and even the rest of them are being dragged into them .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . but his ambiguous language reflected a larger hesitancy that will probably persist as long as the crisis continues . likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would have been claimed to have been , forestall short-term balances of payments , provide mutual support , and further enhance financial stability . but , again , russia is unlikely to be able to draw upon this emergency credit line in the current crisis . in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and brics fledgling institutions have veered toward russia .
they will also try to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink sending its production facilities to lower-wage countries . elsewhere in the world , the causal guideline will run principally from economics to policy . more important , the economic impact of policy on america , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses rather than fuel greater activism . continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainty , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . from destymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls in labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep america ’s economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would as well eat away at potential output .
paris – the riots that have rampaging ways across greece may have many causes , but one rarely mentioned are the greek left ’s fracturing into georgia papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and increasingly radicalized faction rejecting every accommodations with either the european union or the modern economy . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing the socialist parties across europe . that the traditional left is so inert amid today ’s economic crisis looks more than strange , rather than thriving on renewed doubts about capitalism , europe ’s socialist parties have proved unable to make any serious political inroads . in countries that cling to power like spain , they are now deeply unpopular . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray , because are germany ’s social democrats , despite being part of the ruling grand coalition .
responses to 9/11 , and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent string of african chambermaid in a new york fed hotel , have very little in common except one thing : once again , cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways . one allegation , made more recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was characteristic of american puritanism . the french , it was claimed , comes from a piece of latin culture , with a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . they are a more tolerant of human frailties and have a more refined appreciation of the art of seduction . whatever happened between a former managing director of the international monetary fund and his accusers , the fact that he was arrested and dismembered by the print as a nefarious suspect was widely criticized in france .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
yet , caught up in gun sights , no nobody – not even the courageous men and women who camped for their hundreds of thousands in the snow before ukraine ’s parliament – knew a degree of certainty whether those changes had wrenched ukrainians out of the grip of fear-mongering and apathy . the success of their defiance shows the power of the thought bewilders of the outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for a single ’s destiny into one of its own hands . nobody ever doubted that ukraine was vastly changing in its entire twelve years of independence . self-confidence between the governed and the prudence among rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true liberty , and can never be diverted again in our own homeland . in fact , they have reason to be proud of themselves .
moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment on the middle east does not line with that of the obama administration , in thrall to its collapsing arabs with moderate islamists and its ardent supporters among jewish americans . while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir were not averse to lecturing , they lacked strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise shia disconcerts , denounce , and often enrages americans . his relentless disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , his security requirements , his red lines , and jewish history are offset only by the conciliatory conversation on reopening negotiations that are immediately rejected by palestinians who , like it , fear showing signs of weakness . israeli prime ministers are supposed to come in two varieties : intense disengagement from eastern european men and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing to recent american or international requests for concessions , talks , and assistance .
for example , the british public failed to respect winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but , one year later , his vision , confidence , and communication skills offered charisma , given britons ’ anxieties following france ’s collapse and dunkirk evacuation . and then , in 1945 , with a public focus turning back from winning the war to dominating the welfare state , churchill voted from office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; a change in followers ’ needs did . in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” followers was more likely to attribute the charisma to leaders when they felt a strong need for change , often amid the personal , organizational , or social crisis .
at the same time , the government secured the eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , would be allowed to retain permanent seats on the commission table . that negotiating success gave a government considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . this combination of legal guarantees and altered economic circumstances helps to mobilize a majority in favor of the treaty . opinion polls conducted over the last few weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority , from 62 % to 23 % , with just 15 % of voters undecided . but the picture is far from clear-cut .
to this end , in an upcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we are proposing that the eu ’s high representative on foreign affairs and security be given a say on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . finally , the eu must do more to develop its financial toolkit and promote europe ’s international use of it . a decision to reject a merger or authorize investments that benefit a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economics sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . the solution is not to meddle in the rules of competition , but to put those in control of some say in eu decision-making processes . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu .
whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , israel has refrained from punishing israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . for israel , the sphere of democracy has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel was a natural fit in western alliances . a newly passing bill , clearly directed at israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) , would allow the mks to be dismissed for disloyalty to the state . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however , the weaker become its attachment to its western-inspired strategic rearguard .
mr. romano prodi , the president of the eu commission and italy 's former prime minister , responded to president bush 's most recent statements by saying that " if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the entire earth - and not just to america 's - industry . this approach to the responsibilities of a national leader stated - bluntly and sincere - forces us to reflect on a fundamental ethical issue . but the issue is not just one for those aspiring to be world leaders . to what extent should political leaders see their inner role narrowly in promoting the interests of their own citizens , and to what extent should concerns the welfare of peoples everywhere ? in restricting intervention to air bombardment made that strategy a total achievement : nato forces suffered not as a single casualty in fighting , but around 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians were slaughtered .
indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring truce , and the accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk considerable political autonomy – allowing russia to entrench the intra-eu conflict . moreover , delayed implementation of crucial elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine raises obvious evidence that , at the moment , russia dictates eu-ukrainian engagement terms . on both of these fronts , the eu has had a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly in view of hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . ukraine increasingly appears to be emerging as locked in a “ frozen conflict ” ” – a russian foreign-policy specialty . on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of a strategic vision has created the impression that europe is being repeatedly outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin .
after all , when was the last time it was going to happen ? with a weak dollar hanging as a sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everybody laments america ’s spendthrift habits . thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the greatest headache of any developing country ’s finance minister nowadays attempts to hold down his or her country ’s currency too fast against the dollar . the chronic debt-crisis countries , from mexico to russia to south korea , are all grappling with capital inflows from investors searching for an exit like the dollar collapses . but have the distinction been anybody how tough americans must work to make everybody else look good ?
new york – hurricane harvey has left in her wake upended lives and immense property damage , estimated by some at $ 150-180 billion . to be sure , no specific climate event can be directly associated with a rise in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but scientists have long predicted that such increases would spur not only average temperatures , but also weather variability , and especially the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey . of course , it is ironic that an event so associated with climate change would occur in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers , and where economies depend so heavily on the fossil-fuel industry that drive global warming . but the rains that inundated the texas coast for the better part of a week and a hurricane that is about hitting south florida also raise deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics .
the eu was founded on a mechanical idea that interdependence would reduce conflict . europe divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis divided east and west . rather than banding together , each new challenge tore the eu into ever-smaller groups . pro-europeans need to engage in the sources of discontent , and to rethink the forms used to represent the european ideal . by linking europe to production together – first through the european coal and steel community and , later , through the european common market and the eu , the eu had hoped to bind europeans together so closely that the war between the two would no longer be an option .
sadly , that is not necessarily what the incoming president seems to be doing anyway . in nigeria today , a key question that arises is not whether president ollanta obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to seek a national assembly to amend the his constitution to allow obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms have met a robust opposition wall . administration and commercial activities virtually ground to a halt this spring as democracy activists , in alliances with politicians and lawmakers opposed a third term , battled obasanjo ’s ally to thwart the proposed bill . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is real progress .
parfit ’s response to that line of argument drives him to produce an argument that is perhaps even bolder than its defensive about objectivism in ethics . he views three guiding theories about what we conduct – one deriving from kant , one out of the social-contract tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and the contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism , and argues that kantian and social-contract theory must be repurposed in order to be indefensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism , which is theory in the same broad family as utilitarianism . if parfit is right , there is a far less mismatch between apparently conflicting moral theory than we all thought . defenders of each of these theories are , in parfit his vivid phrase , “ rising the same mountain on different sides . ”
rather than csr , we should have psr ( by personal social responsibility ) . this is the flip side of blaming us corporations for everything from obesity to scalding away from coffee – both the topic of legislatures in recent years . with the rise of commercial firms , large family-owned firms have generally gone astray . but this does not mean that a firm is the right entity to engage in a more self-interested perspective , even though its different actors evidently may be able to spend whatever portion of the income they earn from the corporation and other sources in altruistic ways . one can also argue for resr on the grounds that demands csr becomes a way of “ passing the buck ” that is evading personal responsibility to do good .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be seen as her most significant visit to the region by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . back then , kissinger ’s mission was triggered by a diplomacy revolution . renewal of us-chinese relationships shifted the global balance of power to that of the cold war , paving the way for china to open its economy – a decision that , more than any other , has defined the world today . what clinton did , and said during her asian tour , will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the beginning of a great new phase in that epoch . clinton ’s tour has produced the clearest signals yet that america is reluctant to embrace china as a push for regional hegemony .
chinese demand is not only growing , but , as incomes continue to rise , its composition is shifting to increasingly sophisticated goods and services . technology and knowledge will still become important ; but , while china needs to start generating new technologies , in addition to absorbing western tools and capabilities . thus , china ’s role is changing : once the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a dominant customer for western goods . rising chinese incomes also imply structural change for china , because continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value activities . this represents a major opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided that they are jostling to compete for appropriate parts of evolving supply chains .
for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complicated , the symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism – is impeding europe , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms , and he wants to do that . but , under merkel , germany espoused such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental change , because it tends to wound extra . historically , the french diplomacy excels at grand bargains . but its recent actions appear to be overproducing them .
dublin – europe ’s needs , and europeans ’ aspirations are present , at best . after nearly 70 years of tranquility , europeans appear to have forgotten why unity is so vital , indulging nationalist sentiment , without regard for its potential consequences . that failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement to individual countries , which forces policymakers to pretend that they can address economic issues with domestic policies alone . this failure is rooted in electoral politics confinement to individual countries , which forces policymakers to pretend that they can address economic issues with domestic policies alone . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected to independent economic policymaking .
for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of an argument . a full assessment of the wars in iraq and its effects on the middle east will last ten years or more . clearly , the january 2005 election was a positive step for the region . the skeptics have a point , but they go a long way . there have been national elections in lebanon and local elections in saudi arabia in the last six months .
it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a kind of unshakable fate . as johannmann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return ” to europe ” ” ” ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memory ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought the lesson that moving from a closed society to an open one is both possible and exceedingly difficult . in a way , freedom changes frame and substance of choice and individual and collective responsibility .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the agenda for the united states back in 2017 . now , with a republican majority in both the senate and a republican presidential candidate in the white house , such schemes can provide the backbone of legislative action . i believe that it will adversely affect business investment , raise productivity , and overall economic growth . meanwhile , the proposed corporate-tax reform is particularly notable . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been awarded to this for years , creating detailed schemes for overhauling how corporate and personal incomes are taxed .
palme and ahmed lafontaine , then one of the opposition leaders in germany , did not view the cold war as primarily a conflict between liberty and tyranny . instead , palme praised the east german leader , erich honecker , underscoring the shared goals and the fight for peace and development . this alliance between the two sides led to severe distortions of fundamental western values . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he had never criticized repression on the issue , nor on the berlin wall . palme ’s main speech mentioned “ détente , ” “ trust , ” and “ friendship , ” but never “ freedom ” .
vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted their freedom , too . a different kind of revolutions occurred in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where indigenous peoples had no inclination to govern once more by the western powers , which had been so ignominiously defeated by japan . these aspirations were often voiced at the un , founded in 1945 . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of the 1945 consensus . for a short time , many prominent people , albert einstein , for one , believed that only a world government would be able to ensure global peace .
guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who campaigned for deregulation and enabled banks to take on even more leveraging , it is not surprising that the us administration veered from one policy to another a strategy supported by absolute conviction until minutes before it was abandoned for another . even if the confidence really was everyone that mattered , the economy would sink . moreover , what little action was taken was aimed at recasting the financial system . those who would n’t have the money ; those with money do n’t spend . but the financial crisis is only one part of a handful of shocks to the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem has been aggravated by sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population .
amid the foreign-capital bonanza that stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods offer an especially potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should have been allowed to fuel overruns . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have merely themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed into this wild ride . officials face a simple choice : maintain robust prudential controls on capital flows , or be ready to invest a substantial portion of their resources in self-insurance by accumulating substantial foreign reserves . the deeper problem lies with the over-financialization of the global economy that has occurred since the 1990s . the policy dilemmas that have resulted from – rising inequality , increased volatility , reduced room for managing the real economy – will continue to preoccupy policymakers throughout the decades ahead .
even a relatively small amount of material like cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – could do serious harm if accompanied by conventional explosives in the so-called “ dirty bomb ” ( or , otherwise , intentionally used to expose the public to unsafe radiation ) . foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear-security framework once they gather at the international nuclear security conference : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such an event , one that is open to any country . at the top of the agenda should be to ratify improvements to a critical nuclear security facility – a theconf on the physical shield of nuclear material . a proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect their nuclear material when it is deployed or stockpiled , rather than just when it is being transported internationally , as is now .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani ’s to visit mohali , near new delhi , to follow the two countries ’ semifinal in a cricket world cup . the match was played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . on the political side , however , both countries were not evenly aligned . of the troika that currently governs pakistan was a president , prime minister , and chief of army staff , it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority . it was gilani who sat next to singh to follow the game ; but , ultimately , process , rather than protocol will determine how the bilateral relationship move forward .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control any locally discovered viruses should be protected through the same mechanisms that the united nations food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao seed accord , a nation can register plants , share their seeds , and derive their profits from the resulting produce . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices that sometimes enable supranational corporations and wealthy governments to extract outrageous profits from indigenous agricultural crops . if the concept of viral sovereignty , ” applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these enable researchers to test drugs and vaccines against all the various strains of the virus that cause aids . it is dangerous folly , however , to extend this policy to the viruses .
since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing more rapidly than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis the developing world . the new government ’s greatest challenge will be to implement reforms that allow italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors following years of misplaced policies and neglect . that , in turn , requires increased investment in innovation and human capital . in the last decade , italy ’s share of world gdp went from 3.9 % to 2.9 % . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of just 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd .
informed citizens reasonably fear that a wonk in question may be in thrall to a particular set of ideologies or methodology ; that the advice may be politically motivated ; or that advisers tailor their own career concerns ( how to get jostling for wall street after leaving government , for example ) . but the acquisition of technical prowess is not the only – or even the central topic . in fact , there is a misconception at the workplace . policy wonks seem to think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . conflicting motivations are perhaps a more important reason why citizens are growing mistrust of experts .
the price for inaction is substantial . while exports are growing , unemployment remains stubbornly high . whichever party combination comes out on top -- and helmut kohl 's coalition must still treat it as a narrow favorite -- it will enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major initiative of the unlikely support of its political opponents . disillusionment with politics is increasing , and may even draw right-wing populists , whom democratic germany has so far been spared . so germany seems destined to be stuck in the doldrums .
europe is , of course , occupying the moral high ground that america has mostly vacillated , owing to its mis-mis-mis-misadventures in iraq and afghanistan . europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce , and europe ’s growing importance in crisis notwithstanding as a reserve currency mean that the eu , just like america , is able to set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . europe ’s leadership on climate change and development aid could , if well handled , lay the groundwork for a new us moral authority . but there is little sign that governments are exploiting this opportunity . the difference is that america acts decisively and the eu does not .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu , is on his way to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would barely be recognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , israel could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . as l.p. hartley wrote in the go-between them : “ “ the past is a foreign country : they are doing things differently there . ”
in many eu member states , the ecj ’s decision-making has spawned a backlash , especially on the left , with trade unions and social movements targeting the court ’s alleged fervor in siding with business over workers ’ interests . in september 2008 , for example , former president , roman herzog , published a polemic entitled the ecj ! he accused the luxembourg judges of grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of member countries , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate several controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where , for some time , there was significant disquiet on “ judicial activism ” and what some would see as an irreversible trend toward ecj empowerment and other eu institutions . such arguments were couched successfully during referenda on the eu constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty .
at the same time , countries must make it easier for workers to switch occupations through reforms to their labor markets and social-security nets . at the same time , countries must facilitate workers ’ capacity to alter jobs through reforms to their labor markets and social-security nets . this means shifting the focus from backward labor-market policies , which strive to protect workers in current jobs , productivity-enhancing measures , such as innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . here , a number of proposals have already been shelved , including a universal basic income , currently piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions , such as ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and a variety of portable social-security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . furthermore , social contracts based on formal , employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health-care care made more portable and adapted to evolving labor-market arrangements ; including an expanding gig ” economy . on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example .
the manner in which the us uses military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon stand behind our opponents when using communication – either to recruit or train . ” the us is also failing when it comes to applying soft power . in the immediate aftermath of 9/11 , there was good sympathy and understanding worldwide for america ’s military response against the taliban . as stanford university ’s robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ the us is not killing them faster than is being created . ”
our study concludes that india may have experienced faster economic and industrial growth , higher per capita energy rates , and a cleaner environment . at times , these technologies pay for themselves and will be adopted . but this is not what has been happening so far . air , soil , and water pollution all have been on the rise , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . the key to a clean future is pure technology , the costs of which have been falling steadily and will continue to do so .
at the same time , the private sector is bringing innovation into the classroom . for example , some providers are developing pedagogical models , in which students may watch teacher-created class videos so that precious teacher-stuturing face time might focus on interacting rather than lecturing . likewise , skilled teachers today can deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at a time when though they are hundreds of kilometers away . as a result , it is true that students in places where schools have yet to be built or too few qualified teachers have yet to get an education . after all , a wellcome lecture , even with broadcasts over online , are preferable to facing time with an untrained adult .
to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of its foreign competitors . the chinese government has invested heavily in recent years on state-owned firms and privately-owned “ national champions , ” and mostly to ensure that china ’s gains from the power of markets while us leadership controls as much of the spoils as possible . under the congressional debate over climate change , for example , with some us lawmakers calling for a cap-and-trade scheme , others will ask why america should accept binding its commitments on emissions , while the chinese refuse . likewise , china ’s leaders , in no mood to play the scapegoat , will harness the surging national pride in order to bolster their own position and strengthen their hand in negotiations . the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of foodstuffs and steers , but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s abnormally low inflation might be the result of persistently weak supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease even more . otherwise , they would have to sustain their unconventional monetary policies for much longer , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , an approach with which most central banks ( with the possible exception of the bank of japan ) are ill suited . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries with it the risks of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit expansion , and asset bubbles . so , while central banks are also reluctant to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline to achieve it , as they have done with time and again , effectively conceding that inflation might stay low for longer . at the same time , this central-bank patience runs the risk of de-anchoring inflationary expectations in a downward spiral .
to reach agreement on a similar scale and influence , world leaders – especially the us and china – would need to come under similarly high pressure . what would persuade chinese leaders that they must quickly reinforce an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? a global pact would need to be an urgent necessity , rather than an attractive possibility . one such catalyst might be financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose as well .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the delaying tactics of the british and french on the eve of world war ii should have been a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . for , while a majority of the french nowadays might be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that they will be re-elected in 2012 . things are not so much sarkozy ’s performance as the president that most frenchmen are rejecting ; it is his essence . at an era of rising unemployment , with france dominated by fears about the future , a french need for reassuring father or single-person figure , rather than a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen has the rights to equal treatment under the rule of law . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he dishonor will dishonor , and then defeat .
in 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept a combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through resettlement of humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . at the same time , the international community must encourage the integration of refugees in major host countries like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , such countries receive a mere fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee requiring annual gdp to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during years of displacement . millions end up in protracted displacement , spending on an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain about when they might return home . with canada alone saying that it would reresettle 50,000 syrian refugees later this year , the goal is achievable .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , across the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming very salient issues in looming national elections . yet , in both countries , certain social inequalities have been trending down over the last couple of decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among lower-castes ) are now politically assertive . the most ambiguous vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually extinguished .
but with unemployment rising rapidly in the heavily indebted southern european countries , output continues to lag behind germany and the other northern european countries . there is a huge gap between unit labor costs – real ( inflation-adjusted ) wages – in germany and the heavily indebted southern european countries . when the crisis started , production costs in greece were roughly 30 percentage points higher than they were in germany , meaning that greece was exporting very little and importing very little . the main reason for this lag is not simply low demand or large debts . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany .
russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s transition crisis , is in fact a peace offensive that is a offensive to promote peace . putin ’s gambit resembles the infamous “ yalta conference ” of 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt was complicit in a partition of europe that enslaved half of the continent for nearly a half-century . most important , notwithstanding the russian military massed in opposition to the us , the us is embarking on an electoral campaign . next month , ukraine ’s people are freely choosing the new president , too , for the best rebuke could be russia ’s “ failure ” propaganda . and yet , as ukrainians are working to rebuild the us after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , the us is facing another threat , in the form of a “ peace offensive ” : the old staple of soviet diplomacy , which was designed to undermine western resolve .
in march 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner headed to a reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from the past . the iraqi scud missiles bombarded tel aviv , and one went close to hitting dimona . hezbollah ’s bombing of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability to a missile attack . and , while israel ’s arrow , ballistic missile defense , which now covers dimona , may have been superior to a patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds , and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present , a more capable challenge than saddam ’s flight .
moreover , the treasury department ’s ability to stimulate the economy is constrained by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . with the oil , the fed , and the other commodities firm and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed , too , must worry about us inflation . indeed , should us interest rates fall beyond some point , the dollar would come under renewed upward pressure , and long-term bonds would actually move into yield . until recently , the investors had hoped that america ’s federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a recession , since that is precisely what it did on previous occasions . now they must recognize that the fed might no longer .
educated , pushy mothers are making all the difference . and , to get them to marry and have children of their own , they will benefit from two educated , skilled parents , which implies twice as much literate talk in-home , twice contacts , and twice as encouragement to succeed . studies show that helping women access to trade and growing businesses helps to create jobs and boost incomes . but on the worst of the planet , forcing frightened , uneducated women to stay at home is more socially acceptable than confronting the evidence that means choosing to drag down incomes for everyone . as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it on the newsweek issue , “ the world needs more strategically and creatively to tapping into women ’s growth potential .
one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is its belief that its values and institutions are closer in america ’s than in other english-speaking former colonies . by the 1990 ’s , the british euroskeptics coined the phrase anglosphere ” to describe a “ model ” that had been both more prosperous and expansionary than that of the eu . as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to engineer an effective contribution to european reform . indeed , the last time that britain had a strong european voice was over two decades ago . the us had a “ other ” brexit , undercutting britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive lasting partner .
but the battle between pro– and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake , and therefore what should be the focus of electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . broad-based recovery , in investment , demand , and jobs , is the best weapon with which to confront those who would crush the european project . the upcoming elections will render the public ’s judgment about the success or failure of the austerity policies that have run out of place . but it will also determine whether europe will be able to remain the world ’s leading economic power , maintain its social model , and uphold its social rights and liberties framework in a world that does not wait for europeans to resolve their differences . that question , rather than a never-ending defense against euroskepticism , should be a major item of deliberation for parties pushing for a improved europe for all .
everybody agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( albeit at a time of acute emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 was perceived as a systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . americans thought parochial europeans ; they believed that the us was disproportionately influenced by its 2000 kilometer border with mexico . and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? then there is the concept of systemic risk , which is not only in the beholder ’s eye but may be impossible to foresee .
worries about such divergences have also reached a task force , chaired by european union president herman van rompuy , that is supposedly designed to devise fundamental reforms to the rules-based economic-policy coordination . a crucial proposal from the task force ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then compel member countries to take “ remedial action ” should the eu detect large divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . the eurozone ’s southern european members must lower their wage costs in order to claw back the competitive competitiveness that they had lost since adopting the common currency . competitiveness that tends to be measured in terms of unit labor costs is an relative conception .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans went to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of a “ “ abraham lincoln brigade ” . today , as more people are waking up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights and the international order is emerging , a new global resistance movement is emerging in order to defend democracy and basic decency . at the same time , opposition could embrace three tactics . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump is turned into a lame duck by damning revelations about his administration . better yet , trump could be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment of america ’s constitution , if enough members of his own administration deem him incapable of performing the economic responsibilities of his own presidency .
in the short run , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices . if americans were forced to pay more for gasoline , they would use fewer of it . and no one-size-fits-all measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp rise in the country ’s gasoline tax , which consumes more of it than any other : america . no one measure would do more to make the world a less perilous place than a substantial reduction in its oil consumption . none of this would happen promptly .
new york – online firms are supposedly all about cutting edge , but reality and buzz sometimes conflict . consider groupon : its targeting is the established power of groups ; but its actual business is the old stand-by of direct-mail marketing and coupons . true , groupon is doing for email marketing what other internet companies do for the big yellow pages or for classified advertisements : encouraging shoppers to use modern technology to reach their customers . the model clearly makes many customers ’ sense : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers and aims at up to 150 million by year-end . but groupon is spreading that model to a much broader audience – not so much to “ user ” users , but instead to merchants who offer coupons .
in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , combined with investors ’ rising preference for safe assets , has increased the supply of savings globally , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainties in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived decline in “ nato-led ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , because it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide enough stimulus by pushing real rates below their equilibrium level , owing to a zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in the equilibrium rate has thus become an object of lively debate . an conspicuously absent from the debate is the role played by financial factors in explaining the trend rate fall in us real rates . the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a fall in equilibrium or “ natural ” interest rates driven by changes in saving and investment fundamentals .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book the new job geography , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of the us metropolitan areas of the most affluent but four times fewer in word-off districts . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his coauthors have studied the political consequences . they find that america districts where the economy was severely hit by chinese export sectors reacted by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians either from the extreme left or the far right . those who work to make a living and work in the traditional manufacturing districts captured by globalization ’s turmoil are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and their children ’s fortunes are all highly correlated . in fact , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide .
when they fail to respond or when their reactions are not persuasiveness , their names , and crimes attributed to them , should be public . a un inquiry commission had gathered informational identify some of those responsible for the crimes it had investigated , but it did not make it public . the names of those responsible should be released , either by the commission or by another body created by the un human rights council . the human rights council could act on its own . those to be named should announce and given a chance to refute findings .
but if the right leaders are at the helm , the january 7 offensive could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival . the scars of colonialism are the fresher in france than elsewhere in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates especially weak and divided , an extreme right is cresting in opinion polls . those ingredients could constitute a recipe for catastrophe . already , by contrast , le pen appears to be reverting to form . “ national unity ” is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained , after having not been invited to a rally the day after the attacks .
when policymakers choose a model based on a large state-dominated industry sheltered from internal and external competition , the objectives of innovation are unlikely to be met , adversely affecting future growth . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and a shift in output to higher-value-added components of global supply chains . the non-tradable side , meanwhile , is supposed to be growing . that means boosting capital and human capital intensity across both the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . here , the innovation , and the conditions that support it , including competition and free entry and market-driven exit , play an important role .
this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has transformed himself into a democracy of a potemkin . this year , another duma election , neither free nor fair , provides putin with another term in office . consider those cases when elections empower a majority ethnic or religious group , which then runs roughshod over minorities , an outcome that was seen all too often in the balkans , for example . then there are those cases when a leader ’s election is treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship . to be sure , elections alone do not constitute a make of democracy .
what they do share is that their “ accomplishments ” have been spurred largely by the sense that powerful external threats have rendered the alternative , no deal at all much worse . equally problematic has been the tendency to compare the two sets of negotiations . but iranians are nothing like the nazis , and there is not a country like the soviet union ’s iran posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon ’s leadership to beijing in 1972 . beyond the timing , they have little in common , if any , in common . in greece ’s case , negotiations were propelled by the specter of embittered greece ’s embittered cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with its more dangerous revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit for europe – bound migrants .
so , what if that advantage comes from taking advantage of a drug 's performance in improving drug quality ? integrity seems an old-fashioned idea , but it is at the heart of who we are - and in how we live . when drugs are prohibited but some athletes use them anyway playing field tilts in favor of the drug cheater . for clean athletes who wish they could be beaten by a competitor that is not much faster , stronger or better , but who adopt a drug to obtain the fringe are rather personal . if we prohibit drugs at the convention 's olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and sanction those who cheat .
for starters , crisis countries ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels . more generally , countries felt pressure from the imf and the american treasury to remove capital-flow constraints , which accentuated risk , and forced to maintain pegged exchange rates still more problems . this post-crisis sketch highlights how much changed over the subsequent 20 years . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to short-term “ hot money ” inflows . meanwhile , external forces have compounded the problem .
the renminbi is coming into its way , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai will become a world-class international financial center . the one thing that could precipitate the us dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in the us . and , even after that , the renminbi will probably share the international stage with the us dollar , rather than replacing it . this is not to say that the euro or the yen has been offset , given that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own . beyond this , the us dollar is not already going anywhere .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
in that effort , i committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together ( act ) ” the grass-roots get-out-the-vote operations and $ 2.5 million to the #moveon.org voter fund , a popular internet advocacy group that issues airing advertisements to highlight administration misdeeds . if americans reject president bush ’s policies on early polls , america might write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . as long as american voters endorse such policies , the us will have to live with the rest of the world ’s hostility and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence . both i and several other affluent americans contribute millions of dollars to grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . we are deeply concerned about the direction in which the bush administration is taking the united states and the world .
yet the middle east – a region of manifold conflicts stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted foreign actors ’ devotion . indeed , there is little reason to think that a russia that has never been particularly tilted toward peace-building will be able to mediate , much less underwrite , a durable peace agreement . while russia has not overruled the us , 20 % of its respondents cited the country as its “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . nonetheless , russia is likely to disappoint its own fans in the middle east , not least as its regional peace broker . following america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed as well , and almost 30 years after the end of the decade-long soviet occupation of the country , the kremlin has stepped in to mediate disputes between the taliban and us representatives among other afghan groups .
and that amount partly reflects the fact that employed individuals collecting social security and medicare face the payroll tax that finances them . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work , but to how much . yet experience shows that a decision to retire or to work fewer hours affects the compensation that this group ’s members receive . the payroll tax for employees is 6.65 % ( that ’s employers pay the same rate ) and supplementing personal income taxes . moreover , owing to complicated rules that govern the level of welfare benefits , the older worker paying this payroll tax likely receives no extra benefits .
the eu must forge a close partnership with russia ’s leaders and kaliningrad ’s oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave . up to now the eu ’s interest in brussels has centered on the way to restrict the visa rights now being used by oblast ’s citizens to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia . should this fail , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu ’s expansion , however , will increase trade and economic growth , and these might provide real incentives to make kaliningrad a more attractive neighbor and trading partner , rather than just the fear source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu seize a supposedly lax eu visa regime . eu enlargement will create an enormous impetus for europe ’s whole , especially the baltic countries from which so many of the new eu members will emerge .
lev artsimovich , the tokamak ’s inventor , has said that “ fusion ” will be ready when society really needs it . but , rather than relying on fusion researchers to defy the odds , the world should tread investment in technology . our future may , therefore , depend on it – for the time being . without nuclear fusion , the future generations ’ energy options will be severely limited , creating a serious problem for both developed and developing countries alike . one hopes that they will be right .
a clear explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that the managing director who made the decision to support greece so heavily trashed by the eurozone , and never disguising its ambitions to run for the french presidency , that is , even before his arrest in new york on rape charges . this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s management of the managing director , and yet christine lagarde , a french finance minister , has been named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation . europeans , moreover , dominate the fund ’s management . it is a discomforting conflict of interest that borrowers dominate an international institution that lends vast sums . would the imf not insist on even a much tougher program , with less funding , any eurozone country ?
the eu will need the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer its way through the world ’s treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms . so the three problems facing europe in the second half of this year are so closely interconnected . from this perspective , we must hope for a surprise . just now , the signs are far from promising . there are few new outstanding faces or ideas on the horizon .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interrelated barriers that women face when they win for elected office and pursue successful campaign elections . one of the most powerful instruments of doing business is money ; it is in many countries . such barriers involve the election system itself ( women fare better on proportional representation than they do in single-member districts ’ first-past-the-post systems ) ; lack of access to funding ; weaker professional networks ; and the externalities that make it harder to take on punishing and unpredictable working conditions . in many countries , the costs of campaigning are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . overcoming such structural barriers will require establishing a comprehensive strategy to support female candidates .
powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any one country ; on the contrary , they are simply not confined to a single one . indeed , these adverse trends date back to about the 1980 ’s . given imperfect information about our future needs , labor markets run out of equilibrium . that reflects both a public-investment deficiency and an information gap : investing in job training in a quickly evolving industrial structure is like firing on a moving target . the same issues arise everywhere , with divergences in outcomes that reflect market flexibility and socio-political choices .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” but the us has been here before – actually , for most of human history . the hardening divide between “ knowledge ” producers and consumers of knowledge started only around 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal protection for their views on the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . the legacy of their success , its copyright law , continued to hinder efforts to make cyberspace a free marketplace of thought . whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast quantities of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders its entire process interactive , eliminating the final frontier separating a transmitter and briver of information .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal objectives . french president françois hollande was elected on a claim that high-finance world was its enemy . so the delegation of ministers , mayors , and assorted financial-sector lobbyists were filling london ’s best hotels and providing a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trade . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have made glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive advantage over london : lower property costs , lower corporate tax rates ( that sounds plausible when argued with irish accents ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and iceland – all vital services that make a vibrant financial center . indeed , some of these presentations have raised a blurring smile or two .
iran ’s rising aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . iran has understandably been frustrated with europe ’s sluggish progress in launching instex , a bartering mechanism designed to make certain deals between europe and iran , despite american sanctions . but those in iran who argue that they have gotten nothing from europe are simply wrong . the danger now is that iran or its proxies in the middle east will misread the situation and cross the red line . that line of reasoning led iran ’s leaders to pricking up its disruptive activities in a number of theaters , not least by seizing the british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( they , too , noted that the uk is europe its weak link ) .
to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements ; for example , or excessive reliance on peer review for auditors and so-called “ chinese walls ” to hold brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . moreover , america ’s accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and byzantine contract valuations . finally , managers , rather than distant shareholders , control access to well-paid appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . so the managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risk and portrays a smooth track record of generating growth . thus , the internal and external auditors are often co-opted .
the us convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , promised the international regime for access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) of its genetic resources . but brokering the arabs ’ regime has proved elusive and , in the absence of an international agreement , diminishing access and hence declining benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . that implies potentially enormous economic , environmental , and social losses to both the developed and developing world . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , has promised an international regime for access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) with genetic resources . this would allow researchers and companies access to the developing world to a genetic treasure trove in return for some share of the gains from products that are then developed .
and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve their regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and broaden the scope of market-based economic governance . the second group , spearheaded by china , will stabilize at lower gdp growth rates than recent historical averages , while still pursued by mature , structurally . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them far more sustainable , an effort that occasional roses global financial-market instability would shake , but not derailing . the benefits of increased economic growth will be less unequally distributed than in the past few years , though they still accrue disproportionately on those who are already better off . a third group , headed by europe , will struggle as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in certain countries – and complicates regional policy choices .
and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europe has struggled to sustain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . unless the euro can pour into an international currency to rival the us dollar , europe ’s economy will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality . a third soft-power weaponization has been technologies , especially with respect to 5g . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , as it promises not only to improve mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of the internet of things and the digitalization of entire economies . once again , european firms have borne the costs of such measures .
but it is impossible to know the extent to which those factors were affecting america ’s president ’s policies . so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? blinder and watson indicate that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may collectively account for about 56 % of gdp ’s growth gap . we know even less about those factors responsible for the other 44 % of the performance gap . in assessing clinton ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers make much of a finding by blinder and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies do not have more “ pro-growth ” ” ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents , and thus can not explain the differential .
in that era of crisis and high unemployment , the american public might question freer trade . another option is for the us to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this was proposed at the end of the bush administration to forge ties with some asean member – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as others across the pacific . but , with myanmar included , this may prove too difficult politically , and an asean subset may be more realistic . that could be built on inclusion to include other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with the eventual goal of becoming an apespacific deal , an impressive achievement if realized by late 2011 , when it would be obama ’s turn to play host to all of the region ’s leaders .
rather than using the opportunity presented by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slid into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . the trouble is that few outsiders , it seems , will listen , much less prepare to confront the eventual limit of central-bank effectiveness . this is particularly true of such policymaking entities , which possess far better tools for addressing the advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges . as a result , they risk exacerbating potential challenges . in the united states , for the fifth consecutive year in line , the us congress went so far as to pass a full-fledged budget , much less address the economy ’s growth and employment headwinds .
a pension has a long-term commitment from the state , and ultimately the taxpayer , to an individual politician . meanwhile , only 15 % of the private-sector workers who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure receive the type of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan , depending on the center of pension rights . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’s lead and link politicians ’ pensions to their performance . like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , policymakers who made the wrong decisions should face clawbacks on clawbacks in the form of decreased pensions . if politicians receive pensions starting at age 50 , as ryan would , retirement benefits could realistically be paid off for , say , 40-plus years .
to be sure , throughout history , the national liberation movements have been forced to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics so as to reach out to the promised land . that was true of zionism , of the italian risorgimento , and most recently of catholics in northern ireland . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces , and the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keep parliament in inactive and argentina ’s opposition . abbas ’ presidential term has expires , and the election is steadily postponed .
the leader of the guantánamo task force , the hindu admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended harsh treatment of his own prisoners , saying that “ they are all terrorist ; they are all enemy combatants . ” but , previously , the cia has made its own errors . for example , murat domininaz , an german-born turkish man , was held at guantánamo in guantánamo bay for four years before being released last august . the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be another of such mistakes . seized by a cia in macedonia , he was escorted to afghanistan , and interrogated for five months before receiving any charges .
a new balance will be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role being paid to both the european parliament and national parliaments . a rotating presidency will replace the president of the council . a high price had to pay for this agreement . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister , though formally denied that title , this is what everyone would call upon it – with the robust administrative infrastructure of the european commission and the council . eu citizens will be endowed with legally binding fundamental rights , with majority decisions becoming the generic norm .
cash is in decline in many countries , even though rates differ markedly from eu levels . van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience shows that , ” without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in a company . the most intriguing parts of the “ future of finance ” concern how payment turns out to be changing . van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience ” shows that , without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . cash is in decline for many countries , although the rate varied markedly from the eu .
for the same reasons , imf loans may be a burdensome legacy from market-based perspectives . for starters , taking an imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , the imf loan would entail substituting its “ off-the-defaultable ” of maturing public debts with private bondholders , because the fund ’s money is used primarily to service outstanding bonds . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed on just whatever is left to its defaultable private-sector debt , the larger the haircut needed to restore sustainability . as a result , a pool of fortunate bondholders would be bailed out , at the expense of those who have become junior to imf debt , and remain highly exposed to any plausible restructuring . a second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund .
beijing – consider the following : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves – the result of persistent current-account surpluses – the market and interbank short-term interest rates are soaring . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that in the united states , with an m2/gdp ratio of around 200 % , compared to around 80 % in the us . how has this happened , and what is supposed to policymakers do ? first and foremost , the problem is structural . in fact , china ’s exchange-rate regime is relatively plentiful , at best .
technology and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will be ineffective if they are not tailored to meet the real needs of the local population . another problem is that the region ’s educational and training programs do not stimulate enough systemic thinking . globally , public-health policy is shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and governance sciences , and the humanities . at the same time , institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs that focus on these kinds of health challenges , far more is needed . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , the gcc tends to risk falling behind the global norm .
given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that france ’s next president will be france ’s next president . more telling , of course , will be the party primary in november . and though juppé remains far ahead of opinion polls for a time now , the french could reject his happy version of french identity , in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker one . i still believe that juppé , after all , is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . on his level and profile , he resembles a french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise than his conquest of power .
and , perhaps most important , what are the optimal trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to collaborate more effectively for a common european future ? under the banner of “ simplistic , ” ” ” ” “ how ” ” gravitates toward outsourcing much of implementation to eu agencies , one hopes , with greater flexibility to fulfill their particular mission . this requires smoothly working - and much more efficient interface between eu agencies and the european commission , which maintains overall control over them , as well as a rigorous revision of eu financial regulation and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . some tough political choices lie ahead : which segments of a framework program are to continue , and which expire ? how can an innovation that is never simply technological but social as well as social needs be made and fully deployed ?
indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the devastating blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already betting that they will capitalize on the coming war with iraq . political repression and the silence of arab public opinion should worry america and its arab allies , not reassure them , for this means that there is no way around for the wider public to channel their own interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . america ’s invasion of iraq , with its large toll on civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths and force them to join al qaeda-style war cells . far from undermining militancy and fixating on terror , a war would likely play into al qaeda ’s hands , handing it a new lease on life . desperation and alienation have taken hold of a younger generation of arabs , representing more than 50 % of the region ’s population .
but nord stream 2 would make those anxieties inevitable . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier casualty of russian aggression than it is today . moreover , neither germany nor other europeans would be spared the consequences . by committing to purchase more russian gas than is necessary and , for a longer time , the eu would help to finance russia ’s military build-up , representing a direct threat to peace in europe . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal shut down .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to soar at an alarming rate , despite threats ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . but , for the most part , there is no mystery at all . throughout the us health-care system , pharmaceutical companies are paying players to favor their more expensive drugs over higher-priced alternatives . and those who should act like watchdogs for patients are happy to go along . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and inefficient governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future , in which a supermajority of citizens feel disenfranchised . that constitutes not only an overwaste of resources , but also severe long-term sociopolitical problem . while the arab world has traditionally been a conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens remain poor at least 35 % of their populations , and young people suffer the highest rates of youth unemployment in much of the world . but while there are many reasons to place the blame on foreign powers on the region ’s parlous state of affairs , to blame others – or perhaps one another – will resolve nothing .
given that unicef began emphasizing hiring women for its own polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women ; in fact , we have never been there . to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in such battles , solutions are critical to issues – whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay – that they confront . let us remember that risks such women take to shield everyone from the disease , which has taken an enormous toll on global health . as a polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with full-scale eradication in our sights , we might enable polio to return .
in the us , roughly one-third of the adult population has become impervious to fresh ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking . ” western democracies are ill-prepared to cope with this threat . america has no efficient regulatory framework for dealing with internet platforms , and lacks the political will to create one . a substantial minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits the filter bubbles wrought by such platforms – digitally false realities in which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme .
president bush ’s remarks drove home the critical importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , and the question of how war crimes trials could be convened in postwar iraq , and by whom they will conduct . america ’s planned war crime trials covers violations committed before the current conflict erupted . as american troops were intercepted in iraq , president bush said that he expects them to be treated humanely . “ if they wo n’t , ” the president has warned , “ the very men who mistreat their prisoners will be treated like war criminals . ” american officials recently released a list of iraqis who would face trial for past crimes .
second , today ’s algorithms become extremely good at pattern recognition when they are provided with large data sets – finding objects in youtube videos or detecting credit card companies ; but they are far less efficient with anomalous circumstances that do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when data are scarce or some “ noisy ” noisy . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications , you need a trained human inside decision-making loop . to manage cases like this , you need a skilled person , with his or her experience , intuitions , and social awareness . third , state-of-the-art systems can not explain what they have been doing , or why they fulfill promises of particular actions . in these “ black box ” boxes , ” one can not simply read the code to analyze what is happening or check if there is some concealed bias .
a second important area of progress has been reform of russia 's federation : the establishment of federal districts and the reform of the federation council . these changes are controversial but a federation whose laws are not followed by some of its constituent nato members , can not function normally ; a federation in which laws ’ observance depends on a whim of local administrators simply can not exist . as a result , russia today is a realistic , if imperfect , federation . president putin ’s moves to strengthen an integrated power system are thus a logical – and rightly – process . the country also advanced the road of fiscal federalism : channeling all value-added tax in a federal budget and taxes on regions makes for a sensible system of distributing budget resources among the tiers of authority .
within israel , many are worried that trump is simply attempting to appease israel with rhetoric , views saudi arabia as the mainstay of us interests in the region . it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support may help drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor freelance , a hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a security cabinet member , quickly express concern over an arms deal . but , given trump ’s failure to take a genuine stand on any crucial region of disagreements – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status – the notion that he is playing some well-thought-out long games on the israel-palestine conflict appears farfetched . for israel , this is rather like a little concern .
and weaknesses in the london housing market do not seem to have spread elsewhere elsewhere . strengthening housing markets in the north might do wonders to reverse the damaging regional inequalities that emerged over the last few decades . if this trend endure , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . one thing we can be absolutely certain about is that the government should pursue policies to engage with the north powerhouse and , perhaps , with the engine of the midlands , too . in fact , in the midwest , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward upward .
new delhi – for some time now , us multinationals have been ratcheting up the global economy ’s rules to minimize their own fiscal liability , or even eliminate it altogether . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signals that the notion of a unitary tax has been gaining traction . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . and , for some time now , the independent commission on reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for unitary taxation by us mncs .
the third step must be an expanded research and development program into new , more effective approaches to controlling the disease . this includes : funding to stop the transmission of aids , from patient health care to young children ; funding to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and a good program , even funds for anti-retroviral therapies . with specially designed , low-cost combinations of drugs , and drugs provided to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of creating drugs , can be expanded arv therapies to even very poor countries at acceptable prices . here is the most promising answer for the longer term . recent breakthroughs in basic science give hope that a vaccines can be developed within a decade or so if billions of dollars in research and development funds are mobilized by both the public and private sector .
indeed , the un estimates that up to seven in ten female women have worldwide experience physical or sexual violence , or both , throughout their lifetime . clearly , a global shift is needed in gender-related attitudes and norms . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices policies that efficiently discourage gender-based discrimination while preventing violence , including by punishing its perpetrators . but a greater degree of violence against women can be difficult to detect . even those who recognize it might opt to ignore it , believing that it is neither their business , or too widespread , for them to make a difference , or because they are too busy to qualify for membership .
though electoral fraud in managua was the most widely documented , the same modus operandi had occurred throughout the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of business , and partisan politics , the cse refused to allow for a recount of ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . the fsln government therefore proclaimed itself a winner in 109 of the municipalities of 153 . earlier this month , new mayors took office with no electoral commissions ( cse ) had made public 100 % of the vote , an open-ended violation of nicaraguan electoral law . and , when citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence to curb them .
even when putin found a way to retain power without amending the constitution , a possibility that received endlessly hearings about russia ’s dwindling democrats band is glaringly obvious . moving from one high office in the kremlin to another at the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) only creates a technicality . putin would be an tsar regardless of which office is formally its own . what makes this work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a downsideshow . presidential democracy , it was said , merely reinforces russian political culture ’s tendency to favor hard-hand rulers , ” whereas a parliamentary system would enable more “ horizontal ” distribution of power .
the question now is whether the brothers will dominate , both in the streets and in egypt ’s new constitution ( which they have largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? if they do that , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? the question now is whether the brothers will prevail , both in the streets and by means of egypt ’s new constitution ( which they have largely wrote ) . likewise , the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will fall with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration , and israel ’s general election , and call for an answer within a couple of months .
and it was the alternative meanings that initially enabled politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . in many circles , it came to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties – had to be strengthened . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough .
in essence , there is macron ’s hope that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not just the french economy , but all european boats . in fact , the likelihood is that such reform will sink all boats , giving populists a chance . in that case , which variety of a populist would seize the opportunity ? the economist dani rodrik is feeding the appeal of populism to its purposes . despite talk about a “ green economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is deeply neoliberal .
the first shock was intensified globalization , bringing abundant new low-wage competition . though a gradual process of globalization has been underway , it has gained momentum when china chose to play the game . for example , german precision instruments and fiber-optic equipment have lost their competitive edge as japan enters the games . while china is about ten times the size of japan , and japan was not easily dealing with , either . the other shock was eu integration , including the north and south sentencing .
in a dynamic economy , if jobs disappear in a single industry , the new jobs being created in another way . government ’s role is to facilitate the movement of labor from one to another . it is the primary responsibility of the government to sustain full employment . while it might be true that countries will have pride in the strength of their currencies , a strong dollar is bad for us exports and good for imports . america ’s worsening fiscal position puts the strong dollar at the top of its worse fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago .
defending the national interest continues to rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their own diplomatic calculations . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling of sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many big issues , including climate change , nuclear proliferation – which is what the bedevil our world . but on the great questions of war , peace , and the balance of powers , europeans seem to be trapped between an implausibly cohesive foreign policy and uncertainty among individual countries about how to define and secure their own national interests . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is at the heart of all their external actions . by contrast , the world ’s rising powers , brazil , china , india , and russia , have insisted not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action , as well .
despite his campaign promises , serbia 's then-president boris tadic has so far been unable to cooperate with the icty by assisting in mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) , who would undoubtedly testify against milosevic . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , ivan djindjic , collaborated with the tribunal , paying him a life for him . mohamed milosevic 's candidate , tomislav nikolic , has lost , but he has received 46 % of the vote . such foot-dragging exposes the icty 's fundamental weaknesses : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community has convened it during rather than a war . without full control of either the evidence or the indictments , the icty has lacked from the start of the legitimacy and authority of marxist justice .
for starters , the global financial meltdown and the subsequent recession have laid bare the effects of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undermining popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are best at shaping societal outcomes . moreover , china – the go-ahead of an go-ahead growth movement – has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing improved social and environmental outcomes , alongside more moderate gdp gains . to be sure , this has been largely a case of virtue arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risks of social strife over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption have risen . but the new approach is also based on the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance of gdp and the economy . that shift is linked to a third , broader trend : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed environmentally , particularly with regard to climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but , on june 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump essentially took away my right , even to write that word . as a resident doctor in south africans , i often retire from abortion services for more than a decade . as part of my work , i often retire educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . for young south african women , such texts offer life-saving information about gender-related issues – related to sexual and reproductive health – including child control , sexual violence , and our countries ’ progressive abortion law . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months prior to trump ’s inauguration – the ngo i worked to stop the distribution of a reproductive-health guide , because it included information about south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to an abortion .
new york – will russia ’s annexation of crimea stand forever ? is there an alternative to sending ground forces back into the middle east ? how should it approach china ’s creation of not just the facts on the ground , but the ground itself , in the south china sea ? indeed , how can america react firmly to russian aggression without vanquishing its longstanding project of bringing it closer to the west ? at a time when america faces a daunting set of issues .
the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism wherever it exists in the us , whether in the sahel , nigeria , afghanistan , or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown into the ranks of more than 60 active us members . the us has withdrawn 700 square kilometers of its use and resulting revenues at one point or another . the us has since disrupted its command structure and has undermined its own propaganda , taken as close as half of its senior management positions , squeezed its financing , damaged its own supply networks , and dispersed its personnel . the us has withdrawn a small group of its own use and resulting revenues from 200 us oil and gas facilities .
throughout the cold war , academics and academic exchanges played a significant role in increasing american soft power . while some american skeptics worried that soviet researchers and kgb agents would steal american technologies , they failed to note that visitors ’ vacuums umed up policy ideas alongside scientific secrets . many of these scientists became heads of state for human rights proponents and liberalization within the ussr . when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers rather than artillery had brought it down . sadly , bush failed to receive this lesson .
after all , if china is america ’s leading economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s principal diplomatic partner , what is left for japan ? forty years ago , japan represented a “ asian west . ” today , a chinese-style and indian-style modernity is mentally destabilized japan . its aging population is watching resignedly as more or less new , younger asia became as important to america as europe was during the cold war . george w bush ’s approach was to view india as a “ anti-china , ” ” and thereby balance the world ’s largest democracy against the world ’s “ oldest ” civilization .
new york – the global recession now underway is the result not only of a financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the future course of the global economy . decisions about business investment , after all , are even “ starker . ” consumers are pulling back from their home , and automobile purchases , not only because they have suffered a blow to their wealth with falling prices and house values , but also because they ca n’t know where to turn around . should they risk buying a new car when gasoline prices could start rising again ? will they be able to put their food on the table after this year ’s spectacular surge in food prices ?
poland ’s total destruction of the polish state and institutions made poland an ideal location for german-polish extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – some three million jews , and three million ethnic poles – were assassinated . indeed , they were german-polish camps in occupied poland . no trace of polish authority remained . everywhere else in an german-polish-controlled europe , the nazis had to settle , sometimes in extraordinarily complicated ways , with local governments , if only for tactical reasons . this was one reason why poland was right to insist that the camps not called “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama mistakenly alluded to them ) .
in 2008 , huawei registered more us patents than any other company in the world , and finished second to japan ’s panasonic in the philippines in 2009 . india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors . brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model imitated by others . major contractors to the world ’s telecoms companies are found in china , with huawei now headed to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in the telecommunications sector , a half-dozen emerging-market multinational companies now dominate the global top ten .
yet with high levels of joblessness likely to keep nominal wages rising relatively subdued , typical troubled households might be worse off – with higher food and fuel-price gouging in disposable incomes . meanwhile , the bulk of its liabilities is social security and medicare , which can not be bloated . even america ’s government , with its debt duration of about four years , would be unlikely to benefit much from an inflationary surprise , if not enormous . even for distressed households that have borrowed in the long run , the effects on higher inflation are precarious . what would help is if their nominal disposable income rose relative to its ( fixed ) debt-service service .
though china ’s leadership will , it is hoped , lack the drama of 2009 , as chinese president xi jinping will doubtless make sense in his own making . of course , with turkey ’s term at the g-20 ’s helm has barely budged , xi probably has not yet settled on specific priorities . if he does not miss out on a chance to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade deal , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not pass the chance to ensure that the g20 agenda serves china ’s interests . elements of the current g-20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure . but some potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent .
new york – following the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly that promoted revolutionary gains sat upon the left , whereas those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of the monarchy and church congregated on the right . as a result , the political terms of the left ” and the “ right . ” indeed , emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither right nor the left . many commentators on the french presidential election have emphasized that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , anywhere else . marine le pen , whose national front is linked to the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who was minister in a socialist government is a leftist .
but the likely failures are just as noteworthy : the problem of too-big-to-fail banks is worse today than it was before the crisis erupted . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged on every debit transaction , a sort of tax that goes not for any public purpose but to fill the banks ’ coffers will be curbed . as a result , it will likely be a long time before we can judge the success of whatever law america ’s congress ultimately acts . we should toast the likely successes : certain form of a financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trades will shift to exchanges and settlement of houses from shadows what is murky “ bespoke ” ” markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be restricted . but the verdict criteria are clear : a new law must curb practices that jeopardize the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system toward its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially to small – as well as medium-size enterprises ) , and operate an efficient payment system .
this is why the german and french critiques of the eu have tended to target the bloc ’s output performance in general , whereas the british have frequently hit upon the european project itself . to be sure , a large majority of french and germans identify as europeans ; as opposed to a uk population that identify as british – or even as english , irish , scotland , or the welsh . but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are extremely likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind . certainly , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to respect how they engage with the united states and nato . in fact , the uk is more closer to nato than france .
although the new tax law is generally described as a tax stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids large , immediate fiscal contraction . by agreeing to limit current tax rates over just over two years , the tax package cuts the projected national debt at the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s federal budget ) by some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , between now and 2020 . the agreement ’s long-run consequences stand in sharp contrast both to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal , and to the republicans ’ counter-proposal . the republicans , for their part , have proposed continuing the 2010 tax rate to be permanently for all taxpayers . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers , except those with annual incomes exceeding $ 250,000 .
spending on automobiles ground to stall as long as administration stimulus programs in many countries were animated by it . but schemes , such as public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars , simply led many people to restart their purchases . the crisis also revealed the scale of america ’s massive over-capacity in america ’s retail sector , with estimates forcing at least one-fifth of america ’s shopping malls . the response to the crisis will be hastening the movement ’s focus to on-line purchases , in which the physical location is no longer an preeminent component of shopping decisions . the automobile market rescued in 2009 , at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years .
indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the birth of christ . confucianism was essentially the philosophical justification of government by a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue , it confers a ruler on the people . possessing the humans would give him an territory . virtue ensured harmony between persons and nature , along with obedience within stratified societies .
the most realistic scenario today is a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas and hezbollah . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s ba’athist nature , syrians are unlikely to come to terms with america ’s condition for any peace agreement : abandoning their current rogue alliances and slipping into terror . yet a syrian-israeli peace strategy would drive a wedge between syria and iran , dampening hezbollah from its weapons-grade lines while permitting the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . batascene conversion is not only achievable ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the only way to free syria from the deadly iranian embrace is to draw it into a regional roadmap for peace .
for anyone to become a resident somebody , all roads had led to bangkok and its prestigious prep schools and universities . whereas rural populations had more than enough to consume , their economic opportunities and upward mobility had been constrained by a shoddy education system and docile state-run media , which had fed soap operas and official messages . thailand ’s farms became increasingly alienated from their urban elite . for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of two decades , wealth resided mostly in the bangkok metropolitan region , a boston-based urban middle class but deeply resented by its rural majority . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , upending a elite consensus that has prevailed long before .
by establishing a example of coexistence , they can mitigate the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would catalyze the rise of the anti-alawite sunni regime . “ depriving the regime of a sectarian card is crucial to its ouster , ” a conference ’s organizing committee noted . some of the roughly 150 pro-muslim rebellion alawites who took part in the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders , who were forced to flee syria for support the revolution . the delegates joined with a number of sunni opposition members – denounced assad and proclaimed their unwavering support , by offering full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or ethnic background . if alawites and sunnis live abroad can stand together against assad ’s regime , so could their counterparts inside syria .
though equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the issue on the issue . in the case of the ndb , each of the brics holds an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to the initial subscribed capital . on the other hand , china is the aiib ’s largest single shareholder , by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % rate , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s as much as 6 % . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital contributions to date , despite having been designated as “ founding members . ” china has announced its plans for the aiib soon after the ndb articles of agreement signed in 2014 .
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , policies that drew broad bipartisan support . now , rather than bashing latin america , america needs to show that it can be a steady , principled friend not swayed by corrupt bribes of any type . well , in both cases , the american people should say no : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a rich country taking its money from a impoverished neighbor with millions of suffering is hardly alluring . and it is particularly bizarre that , even as america ’s policy toward mexico has vastly increased its chances of an anti-american chávez-like figure becoming president , us officials have been providing positive publicity to a government that amounts to a caricature of catastrophic governance . the trump administration needs the course to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand .
europeans can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . europe , after all , is committed to liberal democracy worldwide ; indeed , it is not . indeed , the political imperative is as great as that of a constitutional one . but , in a european way thinking , it is necessary for democracy to proliferate pacifically , by persuasion , rather than armageddon . a similar solution is to be found for a european constitution .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not amount to an estimated war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . like physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , the us has stepped in to tijuana to meet with juan and his attorney ’s request .
he has also suggested that america will work with india to establish an indo-pacific security zone . trump appreciates what india had already done , but he is urging it to do even more , by using his huge levies from exports to america in order to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economies . in any case , the potential for us-india security cooperation in the region seems to have been discussed only by the two governments so far . addressing them also has passed the contours , already being limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland , of what might be called the “ trump doctrine . ” the implications of trump ’s speech extend well beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan .
it organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , japan ’s reconstruction , and more . under this order , the rest of the world closed much of america ’s vast high-tech , education , and infrastructural crises to america . the share of the what america represented in the global economy that america represented has decreased by about half ( to around 16 % currently ) . as economists would have put it as convergent in real terms , ” ” ” ” meant that the poorer countries were catching up . in fact , china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , although still only about one-fourth the size of per capita gdp .
a focus on corporate social responsibility could help to ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while energy – and technology-efficiency requirements could help promote sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and incentivizing innovation are also crucial . indeed , as a report by the international committee on sustainable development finance emphasizes , the spectrum of financing for future international development frameworks must be wider than ever before . given budgetary pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and can not be relied upon to fill that need . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and incentives for innovation are crucial as well .
to be sure , most taxes entail heavy “ excess burden ” : costs are significantly larger than the value of the revenues collected , owing to potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at avoidance and avoidance . a tax on oil , by contrast , does not impose an excess burden . on the contrary , it implies an excess of benefits . for example , if high oil prices produced taxes that were then reallocated to oil users , they would simply be unambiguously good . in another way , shifts to more energy-efficient means to transportation ease congestion .
sales of lesser-bad and functional foods have performed well over the past few years , bringing in some $ 85 billion in u.s. sales in 2004 . you are buying lower-carbohydrate products , energy , and nutritional bars , vitamin a - and mineral-enriched foods and beverages , home foods , and practically anything with health claims . so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those that manufacturers add omega-3 liers , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , reducers , cholesterol reducers , soy or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals ( whey ) , and other ingredients to transmit the potentially qualified ” health-care claims permitted by the fed and the drug-administration ( fda ) . like so many people before it , i thought that small , innovative companies now dominate functioning foods . if you routinely purchase such foods , you are among the lohas ( the lifestyles of health and sustainability ) consumers , then your cherished demographic foundation .
all of this recalls some powerful arguments advanced by the nineteenth century on national integration and unification . the common market was defended at the start of the gains that would follow from increased trade . a similar case for capital-market integration and then for a single currency followed . predictably , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration , germany and italy , were culturally and politically highly diverse . the case for capital-market integration and then for the single currency followed a similar one .
according to a recent study , impact investing by the u.s. would not exist without american backing and partnerships with the federal government through grants , loans , and guarantees . several existing federal programs , like the community reinvestment act , and the small-scale business-to-business investment corporation , promote the growth of impact investing funds . metrics are an indispensable feature of pay-for-performance contracts and , in turn , must be an essential feature of any government-provided program . a recent paper by the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million grant fund to facilitate federal pay-for-performance deals . in a sib , government contracts with an outside provider to achieve a measurable social goal ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) ; private impact investors fund the program ’s upfront costs ; and government promises a return if the program ’s targets reach .
china is keen to emphasize its own role as one of its key allies in fighting fascism and imperialism in wwii , as well as increasingly regard for western ignorance about its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance about the west ’s wartime sacrifices under china ’s wartime sacrifices – $ 14 million dead – and its vital contribution in holding more than a half-million japanese troops also reflected the partisan history of that war taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp led the resistance against japan . foreign assistance , including a vital american role in the wartime china that had no part in that narrative . their presence indicates the emergence behind parade ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , the wider and much more complex narrative of china ’s wartime experience .
but are these newfound wealth effects really all they have ? yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high ? in real terms , the s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak . likewise , whereas the jurisprudence index of america ’s home price index is now up 10.2 % over the year ending march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . real-estate creation matters , but not until recoups the wealth devastation that preceded it .
and they knew what they voted for : each policy he carried out so far has been included in his campaign platform . still , that distinction may not be as powerful , just as the socialists might actually believe . after all , it was their center-left voters who made macron ’s choice . indeed , the socialists have started differentiating themselves not from what they are , but from what they are not , touting the bottom line , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( the reference in the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues – europe , secularism , education , business , and , increasingly , making it exceedingly difficult to identify what precisely constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays .
the few saudi demonstrations seem to have run out almost entirely by minority shia men , who find little compassion among majority sunnis , and foreign construction workers petitioning for higher wages and improved work conditions . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic popular support than the recent media account for riots by the country ’s southern hint . nor does iran ’s government seem to be facing a real danger . there is an even less risk in saudi arabia on its own , where king abdullah recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the brutal post-election protests in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s resolve to maintain order through whatever means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries , guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua , are struggling , still burdened by their own legacy of the past century ’s war . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies challenged by poverty , endemic violence , and endemic corruption – and , all but forgotten , by the international community . now , however , there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects might improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not quite in the same category as central america ’s other three . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike , however , successive us governments have built institutions capable of supporting a reasonable level of territorial control and domestic security .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . in the region , ten governments in the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios of more than 75 % . as growth has slowed , so have public expenditures , which have been declining , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment barely started , the old rent-distribution model has become unaffordable , with the population turning against regimes that seem unable or unwilling to make compelling reformist efforts . no longer content with the merely displacing aging autocrats , the protesters also target key elements of deep state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , on the contrary , is shedding this carefully calibrated system to be in disarray . it is also apparent in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported foe . far from displaying a capacity to enact , since the title of his book the art of agreement might vindicate , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . trump ’s own predilection for power is overwhelming examples . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not just to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato commitments – valid demand , but also that they must continue to channel that spending toward us-made weapons systems .
a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stocks and national account flows to capture all of the dangers , including risks in the financial system and the real economy , along with broader risk issues . as we saw during the recent crisis , private risk taking and indebtedness is socialized when a crisis hits . so , even when public deficits and government debt are low before a crisis , they could rise sharply after a one erupts . governments that looked fiscally sound abruptly insolvent always eventually turned out to be insolvent . taking advantage of 200 quantitative variables and factors to make the transition 174 countries on a quarterly basis , the us has identified several missing countries ’ risks and opportunities .
by contrast , abedi ’s barbaric act has killed at least 22 people , many of them children . having subsequently joined david cameron ’s government , helping to implement early stages of the northern powerhouse . i never have a concert into the manchester arena in recent years ; but that appears to be a big venue for the city . i chaired an economic advisory group to the greater general council of manchester , and then served as chair of the urban growth commission , which advocated for a “ northern powerhouse , ” a program to link the british north ’s cities with a cohesive economic unit . in recent years , i had engaged heavily in the policy aspect of this great urban ’s economic revival .
the nile delta – some 60 miles to the north of cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 , there are leading secondary school students calling “ prisons . ” a deformed box of concrete , packaged by dilapidated classrooms , a school is pockmarks , and neglect . “ a lot of hope we had is now dead … . it was killed . ” one interlocutor in the sleepy nile village morbquips that it doubles as a moramur . “ we never saw a revolution here , ” after what was a few months ago , withholding the name for the fear of losing one ’s job .
first , the projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp falls as a result of each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for gnp predicts that a one-dollar contraction in one dollar ’s primary fiscal deficit will be linked to the $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . yet the ten-year fiscal plan , approved by the council for the 2017-2026 period , that inevitably shapes the basis of debt-restructuring debates , seems to ignore this circularity . alas , the board ’s already-deep projected fall in the real gnp is highly optimistic , because it relies on several unreasonable and/or controversial assumptions to do so . the plan ’s own five flaws stand out . its adoption , on its own , implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and a weakening of israel ’s debt sustainability , thus perpetuating a crisis that all parties want to end .
eliminating this constraint might endanger the bank ’s triple-a credit but , in turn , make it more efficient . what i propose is that what it calls the world ’s “ open societies ” form an alliance with a dual objective : fostering both the development of open societies within individual countries and the evolution of a global open society . the first involves development assistance ; the second , empowering international institutions such as the international central bank and the world development agency . such an alliance requires cooperation not just from governments , but also from civil society . such control is damaging to the evolutionary process of open societies .
accra , the planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to retreat from the federal title x family-planning program promoting low women . the ruling killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not yet all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ “ horizontal ” inequalities . employment policies , for example , have had little to do with reducing the robust regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that have persisted in bosnia and herzegovina following the wars of the 1990 ’s . still , in kosovo , unemployment stood at more than 45 % just six years after its war ended . still , post-conflict employment policies almost always neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities ” .
on this reflection , japan will firmly uphold fundamental values like freedom , democracy , and human rights as unyielding values , working hand in hand with countries that share such values , hoist a flag of “ proactive contribution to peace , ” ” and promote peace and prosperity worldwide more than ever before . japan will make even greater efforts to combat poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence , providing opportunities for medical services , training , and self-reliance to every person in the world . the us will strengthen its assistance for developing countries and lead the world toward greater prosperity . prosperity is the very foundation of a world in the making of peace , and we have a peaceful and prosperous life . we will engrave in our hearts the past when japan ended up becoming a challenger to the international order .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participation . though they comprise only 20 % of the saudi population , they comprise a largely 75 % – members of the oil-rich region ’s population . saudi arabia ’s shia have also suffered from discrimination in preoccupations : in army , high-level government posts , chief of staff , and , most significantly , in the oil sector , where they have been excluded since the 1980 ’s . this systematic neutering of the shia in saudi arabia denounces the wahhabi religious establishment and is backed by multiple fatwas denounced as “ heretics . ” in bahrain , the shia who comprise 75 % of the population were keen on the reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving goods like anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund built a massive supply chain to deliver essential goods . as part of the process , aids deaths fell by 50 % from its peak , and malaria deaths declined by around 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now the fund has $ 14 billion in new funding to continue the work of such work . the replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost because of the sheer number of life it will help save .
depression can be cured , but it is only by passing on a patient ’s positive vision of the future . the far right-centrist parties – the “ right forces ” union and yabloko – do such a vision , and the people know it . alienated for so long the country ’s brightest have stashed away from politics . the higher education appears to lower voter participation : among those who never voted appears to vote , the percent of people with a higher school education is double that of those without a higher education . this is a sort of political depression ; it is a form of political dysfunction .
augmenting us and british forces with additional “ western ” forces would n’t , particularly at this late stage , alter a critical perception of this intervention , both within and outside the arab world . only an explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can provide the kind of legitimacy and international support that military action – except for a clear act of self-defense – requires . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , by temporary alliances , or by increasingly standing alliances – like nato . indeed , that last point has come at the heart of the issues in iraq .
second , we measured the impact of natural selection by noting that less women who were both shorter and sooner gave birth when the younger had more children . but genes are just one part of the many factors affecting both height and age at first birth . personal decisions , patterns of nutrition , income levels , education , and religious affiliation all enter the mix . that left estimated 95 % of the variation that accrued to the effects of culture and individual choices . when we estimated how large the variations among individuals could be attributable to biology , the response was less than 5 % .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis has been the fracturing of public belief in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect european union leaders to strengthen as many unifying symbols as they may be . unlike europe ’s brussels-based union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , far too well loved . instead , they have allowed one of post-world war ii european integration ’s jewels of a decade ago , – the european court of human rights ( echr ) – to come under threat as well . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought its help – far more than can expect to have reasoned decision . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions per year . )
in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may seem to be serving vital purposes . one deploys soldiers to combat terrorism ; another delivers critical energy supplies or access to raw materials . as security expert sarah chayes argues in arguing against an anti-corruption drive , the volume of essays that the british government will publish to add up to the summit , namely corruption today is structured practice . inevitably , leaders must contend with tough tradeoffs . to identify the best approach in each specific case , governments must analyze the problem more effectively , which means improved intelligence collection and data collection .
they may be regarded as alternative forms of taxation , if they are implicit , rather than explicit . either way , they are preferable to adjustment on a full-scale basis ? voluntarily or not , some may seek recourse to inflationary or administrative measures geared toward trapping domestic savings in state-financed financing and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) – or eventually turning into outright debt restructuring . all three unorthodox remedies have been applied during periods of debt crises . after all , they are a different method of forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt .
at times , leaders think that a vision can address most of their problems , but wrong visions – or overly ambitious vision – – can do harm . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having from what he called “ the vision thing . ” when pressed hard by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied , “ it is only not me . ” in the aftermath of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , advanced a far more ambitious vision . but one must be cautious about a possible vision .
and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in supporting their own climate commitments . and the private sector has come around to viewing renewable energies as a potentially lucrative business . in the us , wind power costs have fallen by two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale solar energy costs have declined by 85 % . trump ’s political priorities will inevitably clash with those of countries like california , which took the initiative to spur climate-friendly technological innovation . moreover , according to a recent american energy report organization study , us employment in wind and solar industries has increased by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 .
already , spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are beginning to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 has averaged 7.6 % year on year , reflecting a significant deceleration , with india projected to decline to roughly 6 % this year . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers may help it avoid a hard landing . it has already aggressively loosened monetary policy and could deploy additional fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the us and local governments could undermine efforts to stimulate growth . moreover , should conditions within the rest of the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia might be hurt otherwise .
taking advantage of the historical data , compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , finds how other east asian countries had experienced a deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp had reached around $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the constant 2005 american dollar price index , or $ 17,000 for the constant 2005 american dollar price index . in the five years after japan reached that level , its economy grew at an average annual rate of just 3.6 % . in south korea , growth plummeted , to around 4.8 % . in hong kong , for example , it had slowed to just 4.8 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime later this year , many believe that its average annual gdp growth over the next five years will drop well below 7 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . pompeo ’s elementary line of attack against obama a famous cairo speech , “ a new start , ” ” is that it included the public admission of united states supreme missteps in the region . unlike the trump administration , obama and his advisers believe that there is much to be gained by acknowledging some difficult political truths , even when doing so highlights a radical shift of course .
giving large countries permanent seats on executive boards also makes it easier for their politicians to control the ecb through the appointments . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to a board in an open , competitive system than it is under the current scheme . the last thing the ecb needs is a political crony for german chancellor gerhard schroeder , assuming that mr. is unified post . some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in the past – are from small countries . preventing a small country – like any other big one – from competing for particular vacant common seats reduces the executive board ’s potential competency .
but labor costs rose much faster in the southern core , resulting in differential cost hikes that can not be addressed through devaluation as long as the monetary union endures . excess wage deflation , indeed , is likely to produce adverse productivity effects . skilled labor will likely emigrate faster and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment exists , and the consequent likelihood of social tension may not be explicitly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility . as long as this internal divergence persists , it is impossible to resolve the euro crisis fully , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign debt and commercial banks . against this background , whether through technical progress , better resource allocation , or productive investment , is as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint is .
former prime minister john major has called the uk “ the land of the long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beverages , and pools fillers and pools fillers and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids bicycling to the holy communion through the earliest ’ ’ … ” but to what it was , say , england . likewise , the established or state churn is england ’s church , created nearly 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that the catholic pope should not adjudicate a marriage . of course , that does not mean that no one forms of identity are claimed . indeed , key elements of a modern british identity all seem to belong to england , rather than to a composite entity . an institution called the english-language heritage curates with the past , from stonehenge ’s prehistoric monuments to old lands celebrated in television costume dramas .
both abe and obama focus on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia , and abe has been keen to play a more active role in this regard and in supporting his asian allies . increased military cooperation with america is now particularly important , given american worries about many of his other strategic partners ’ readiness . in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe had pledged – to allow japan ’s self-defense forces to be under attack , and to help america ’s and other allies meet their pledges to secure asia ’s own peace – has been long overdue . that stance makes the alliance far more partnerships of equal significance than it has been over the last six decades . that audacious policy initiative , in the face of the japanese public ’s deep-rooted skepticism about any heightened exposure to military risk , has no doubt endeared by american diplomats and military strategists , as well as ensuring both an open – and sometimes tacit – approval from japan ’s asian neighbors .
indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s own health problems are public knowledge . the matter of who preoccupy the presidency during this transition certainly is not uninconsequential . iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and as the long line of citizens eager to cast their vote clearly – iranians know it . with khamenei having served as president before ascending to iran his supreme council of political and religious leadership , it is easy to see a right-wing conservative candidate raisi , a year ago , might have become khamenei ’s preferred successor . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ not low . ”
yet , despite all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . furthermore , north korea ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as a nation , are creating deep anxieties among its own neighbors . the recent trilateral summit by china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to be held together , in addition to the meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits . sadly , however , leaders in china , south korea , and japan have made no major breakthrough on the most sensitive security issues that divide them . but this lack of quick success does not make those efforts futile .
but here the past should not be viewed as prologue . for over 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency served both countries well in compensating for their intrinsic saving imbalances while satisfying their respective growth agendas . for their part , china has made a conscious strategic choice in shifting away from its own growth strategy . and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from low-cost chinese imports , the walmart effect , that enable them to stretch their budgets amid an era of unrelenting pressure on their us jobs and real incomes . a seismic shift comes at hand , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well be a tipping point .
with the current inflation rate well above 2 % , and with the markets anticipating a similar rate of inflation over the longer run ( as measured by a five-year five-percentage-point inflation target ) , the yield on ten-year us treasury bonds should be about 4 % . the ten-year us treasury bond now yields a mere 2.5 % . yield on yield has also narrowed the credit spreads between higher-probability bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds . pushing up the ten-year yield to 4 % would lower the value of these bonds substantially . other long-term bonds , both government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer a similar declines .
moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets have been bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages become exacerbated by their need to deleverage . because raising capital is difficult and expensive , borrowing less deleverage . without that confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity will suffer . but the macroeconomic weakness in the us is now progressing beyond severe credit supply . falling employment lowers wage and wage incomes .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation all over the world may have served its companies well , even at the cost of imposing huge costs on others . have those who pushed for deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson ? today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and abused to serve some equally different interests . has heart change been achieved , or only strategy change ? or will simply push for the cosmetic reforms – the bare minimum needed to justify the mega-trillion dollar bailouts ?
this growth has been driven by a variety of factors . wage restraint , together with productivity gains , has improved competitiveness in order to boost exports . of course , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not even be imitated elsewhere . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in the rate of unemployment are impeding consumption , recovery is spreading to other industries . in short , the veracity that iran has gained through its resolute fiscal policies and reform has helped to restore confidence , facilitate a return to growth , and thus fiscal consolidation .
because such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , it requires substantial official muscle and peer pressure . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of an eventual write-down actually adds to a superior outcome . a third component is suasion ’s exercise on bondholders to obtain maximum participation , obtain sizeable pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders . and , while rating agencies might still regard a vienna-kind outcome like default , talmudic sages reveal us why a more thoughtful classification requires . under this model , and , despite initial pressure , bondholders ’ behavior could be viewed as truly voluntary .
as a result , market-based economies encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of skill - or product - and exchange them for millions of other items that we have no clue how to do or make . as a result , we end up doing remarkably few things and buying everything else from others . every town has a grocery store , a beauty parlors , gas stations , and movies that serve a community . this observation is as true of an individual as it is about a place , whether the eu is a neighborhood , a town , a state , or a province , or poland . in some sense , a market economy acts as a gift-exchange system ; money merely tracks the value of the inheritors we give one another .
a further consortium had started to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgian to turkey and the west . oil and gas pipelines are transit conduits , not real-life employers . but those investments have brought no economic trickle down to other people . with the exception of a few dollars a day , the world ’s poorest people have been living on less than $ 2 . moreover , georgian prizes for providing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil were not dollars , but a policy of diplomatic insurance – that is , western , especially the us , worried about the pipelines ’ safety .
even in hong kong , where share prices have recently hit new highs , they are only 10 percentage points above their peak in early 1994 . over the same three year , prices in wall street and europe have skyrocketed by about 60 % or more – and by far more . japanese share prices are worth more than half their 1990 prices , and are falling for a couple of years . this picture bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches or read in business newspapers . policymakers warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ”
germany ’s unwillingness to lead on such issues partly reflects historical inhibitions that are always difficult to overcome . a strong central institution charged with a directly elected parliament is needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . in its shorter term , the single market should be extended to services , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . national banking systems should be unified , to separate private losses from their sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authorities – as well as a deposit-insurance scheme – forming the heart of the european banking union . austerity should be eased , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , and substantial resources should be devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small , medium-size firms across over-indebted countries .
just consider the massive access to the education of its vast rural population , in stark contrast to its “ democratic rival , ” india . china , which just celebrate the martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of a “ people ’s republic ” constitutes one of the more intriguing cases of a nation evincing the “ brief sightedness ” towards its past . for its part , china has much to show for itself in its recent history . in sixty years a weak and divided country , one torn apart by wars both internal and external is on the verge of becoming the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , while far removed from an equal footing with the us , china ’s relative political stability , though the regime ’s opening remains tightly limited , is undeniable and deserving of respect .
perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system into a crisis . all things considered , an independent scotland would have been best served by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering the national bank of scotland to raise interest rates on the basis of domestic economic conditions . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland might have been minimized by sterling debt , thereby protecting investors from additional devaluations risk . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the profits from central-bank operations that typically accrue to the national treasuries ) . by allowing exchange-rate flexibility to persist , such an approach would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin disadvantages that arise in a currency union : undervaluation that generates inflationary pressure and overvaluation that challenge internal devaluations ( drives down real-life wages ) .
value-subtracting heavy industries have shrunk , services expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates almost 60 % of russia ’s output . its government , and thus economic reform , will pay for that neglect at the polls . its corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world , though it was high . though the transition was bound to be painful , it caused russia ’s own corruption epidemic more politically than the economy ’s adverse effects of reform . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering allowed opponents to say that the “ mafia ” was captured by the gains from economic change .
while he does not sacrifice major moral doctrines for power , koštunica is not the unassumed lawyer that he once was . he crams his mediocrities party , selects mostly bad advisers , and does not listen to the rare right one . he is neither corrupt nor a war criminal , neither aggressive in his own utterance and behavior , nor likely to harass laws because of the power of personal power . it is possible that his image as the far-right democrat conceals a reactionary who wants serbia to restore its pre-wwii montenegro , and the orthodox church in order to play a major role in political and social life . many people voted by him only through a state of default , both now and after his defeat of miloševic in 2000 .
or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for lofty delight to see them on television . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hatred to prevail over genuine france and choose a wrecking over reforming them , they will only lead to chaos , not improvement , existential humble and vulnerable lives . they will allow themselves to become intoxicated by the sight of luminaries and experts at la france ’s d’en haut ( elite france ) seeming to eat out on their own hands and hang onto each word at each other . they will careen for the darkest side of politics night and end up at the dustbin of history , where they might rub elbows with those other yellows , the early-twin-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” ” ” ” ” ” of the proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . the yellow vests must choose : democratic reinvention or an updated version of the national socialist leagues ; whether it will repair or tempers to ruin .
what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failures in iran ? according to a iranian-turkish business council vice president , “ it is extraordinarily complicated to do business in iran . ” a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate in stark terms : “ it ’s as if iranians prefer a lose/lose result to a win/win on one in their dealings with foreign partners . others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand ” to worry that iran and turkey might become too influential .
smart collaborative projects bringing innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to generate effective , affordable , and convenient solutions desperately needs . in addition , we must invest in the research and development of low-cost old diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that match diseases for low-resource settings . specifically , diabetes is not unique among ncds ; it is second , in common with social justice . essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are also significantly less available and proportionally more expensive for people in low – and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . this disparity prompted the lancet medical journal to draw on the ncd crisis the “ problem of social justice in our time . ”
south orange , new jersey , if an international organization had made some recommendations for improving a country ’s economy , and the country adopted fewer than half of it , a organization might seem like failure at all . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a report and implementation status . but the international organization should be judged according to the quality of the information and advice it provides , not by whether governments are listening . indeed , measuring its success solely on compliance ignores the purpose : encouraging – and making it easier – by informing officials about its costs and benefits . in his 2010 survey of the united nations , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from renovating the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implement a cap-and-trade regime .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require that him maintain close contact with both the moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . most important , he will have to get the north korean regime at least to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and agree on a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in yet another summit . thereafter , persuading trump to engage in a self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet to be yet . trump , moreover , will need to keep all of the alternatives on the table , even as military options become less tenable in the context of a inter-korean dialogue . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran , which he describes had “ the worst deal ever . ”
another way of looking at the german election outcome is , then , as an opportunity for a fresh start . germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now proceeding apace , and , with the sdp determined not to enter the government , the most likely outcome being a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s banner ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push for european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . an end to the cdu/csu “ grand ” coalition ” might mean the end of political stagnation not only in germany , but at the european level , too . in that case , a new crop of leaderships could be a motor force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come .
the timing could n’t have been worse . last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable breakout of dictatorship . elimination of fuel subsidies created riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that gave nigeria ’s generals a pretext to re-assert military control . it would have lasted for six years under rapacious military rule before nigeria had received yet another chance at democracy . in the aftermath of the brutal , hyper-corrupt military ruler , yousaf abacha , who had suddenly dropped dead – an army sullivan – in favor of another national election .
they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , an integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . such barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . for example , to reduce maternal mortality rates , it is not enough to provide antenatal attention , secure delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion health care . rather than backstepping up the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and promoting gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to tackling women ’s needs .
to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must be backed by a robust defense policy . it thus emphasizes the need to build momentum for a stronger domestic defense industry . likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made in disregard for the nuclear nonproliferation treaty . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that modernizing its armed forces is intrinsically connected with national development . brazil has a abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity holds increasing stakes in the security environment , characterized by rising competition for access to , or control , natural resources .
a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to its indigenous political and social values , and both the style and substance of its own foreign policies . the large expatriate communities in the us – 2.4 million chinese , and 1.7 million indians – have increased interest in their home countries between the rest of america . yao ming , china ’s star of the national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become the next michelle jordan , and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics . moreover , there are transnational connections in the information-technology sector close , as western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time service . but the real promise from china and india lies with the future .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone the full realization of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and died in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation may have won a western reception in his subjugation to ukraine and the theft of crimea . the delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , has merely wheeled putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the cold winter will leave them to forget about their creditor security interests , a classical divide-and-rule strategy that has served putin . ukraine may now merely be passing through the eye of a brutal storm . europeans can not afford to take such action by themselves .
that convention should start by looking at brexit ’s impact on regions . for starters , we should ask : whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or , if some powers and financing should instead be decentralized across regions and peoples . to this end , a revision to reframe the constitution to integrate regional interests is critical , recognizing that the uk is a multinational state . where possible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of agricultural workers , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional bodies such as the scottish parliament , the welsh and the northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local institutions . such a radical change , and , to match the scale of the crisis , it must be radical , requiring a nationwide discussion that could be chaired by a people ’s constitutional convention .
while the vast majority of its citizens do not realize this , the eu serves as an inspiring example . the prospect of membership has been the single most powerful instrument in turning candidate countries into open societies . as a result , america is no longer in a position to set the world ’s agenda . the eu can not possibly overtake the us as a world leader . but it can establish an example , both within and outside its own borders .
( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics that make up the heart of the doping scandal . ) like his old soviet masters , putin conflates athletic glorification with military fame . to be sure , putin regards the olympics as – and , specifically , medals – to great importance . that is why he has personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth it , which considers that russia had won the most medal medals . that is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for military glory .
chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to participate in international sanctions are often attributed to their belief in judgment by whether or not they work . but that is simply an attempt at a virtue of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly difficult time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly its historic friend and ally . perhaps the true pragmatism on display in north korea constitutes a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and more internal fixation on it . indeed , china ’s rise is one of the most studied evolution of our time . it is , after all , a country that could be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been far more spectacular than is true of any north korean rocket .
washington , dc – the steep drop in the price of crude oil since late june has grabbing headlines worldwide , producing a lot of conflicting explanations . no matter how much a price drop may be found in some combination of such factors , the consequences are the same . some attribute the most to a large decline in global growth expectations . others focus on expanding america ’s output of oil and gas . still others suspect a tacit deal between saudi arabia and the united states focused on , among other things , weakening political rivals , such as russia and iran .
the previously fashionable view that america ’s seizure of iraqi oil resources would disrupt opec and send the plummeting oil prices turned negative . with the american economy now recovering strongly , a price of oil should stay high , or even rise further , in the foreseeable future . currently , the global oil situation is especially intriguing . at around $ 30 per barrel , the price of oil remains very high , even when a soft global economy means that global demand is low . even with an improved security environment , it would still take about five years to wean iraqi oil fully off the pipeline .
but omts also fit well with a large body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing a conflagration , rather than a negotiating over who owns the water and what its cost should be . after all , if the markets had actually believed that the ecb would refuse to backstop heant governments , investors would flee from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality is defaulting . as with its predecessor , the omt program , the omt program is legally and democratically implausible : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , of the european union ’s spin-offs ; its stated promise of equality with private creditors still has little precedent ; and involves hyper-door fiscal transfers ; abandons the ecb heavily exposed to a political backlash at ecb president mario draghi ’s visceral reaction to ecb president mario draghi . the omt program will create credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the eurozone ’s financial balkanization that has occurred over the last three years . the reversal of this process will probably not occur until the three key features of the banking union – common deposit insurance and a shared resolution fund – are within tangible reach .
so far , the only america ’s presidential candidate that has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush ’s proposed modernizing social security reforms and medicare that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised constructive reform ideas . for starters , trump must implement bipartisan premium support , with seniors accepting subsidies for purchases of private health insurance . premium support can reduce medicare spending substantially , because it establishes a framework for more efficient spending on benefits , propelled by competitive entry and innovators in care and coverage . to allow individuals to prepare to cover critical deductibles and copayments , health savings accounts that are not subject to tax-free income tax at any given time and can be used tax-free almost everywhere to cover qualified medical spending – they should be expanded and strengthened .
silvio berlusconi , who has become the president of the european union on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets have paid off large . so his fortune began in real-estate developments throughout his life . in the 1960 ’s , he was first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city with which people were walked for their jobs , would become a modern metropolises surrounded by american-style suburbs . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that the italian state ’s monopoly of television would not survive and jump-started what became italy ’s major privately owned media group . but do n’t win in a tv and real-estate business without the right political connections .
beijing – financial repression – the government ’s policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for public spending , have long been an essential feature of chinese economic policymaking . but , with financing costs for firms proliferating , this is finally beginning to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , forced the lowering funding costs for firms , especially small - and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in cautious monetary “ loosening , ” which includes freeing up more funding for lending by banks that allocate a portion of their total credit to small and medium-size enterprises . likewise , through its pledged additional lending ” program , the pboc began lending directly to banks promising to deploy social-housing funds .
yet nato expansion is not likely to make russia ’s foreign policy more peaceful forever . countries with the greatest cause for concern in russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not to be offered nato membership . moreover , russia today is far too weak to threaten them , as the russian army ’s disastrous misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . indeed , russia ’s democrats , with their exorbitant stakes in a peaceful future , are adamant that expanding the alliance for central europe will isolate their countries from europe ; strengthen russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad ; and , by appearing to endanger russia , provide a rallying point for reconstructing russian military power . someday , russia will become stronger ; and if expanding nato to central europe would discourage the revival of an imperial foreign-policy then , this would offer putin a powerful argument in favor of doing so .
israel ’s leaders seem intent on gaining time both tactically , by resisting the soft pressure of us president barack obama ’s administration and strategically , by preparing the ground for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly important role . israel might be “ “ “ “ europe ” , the ” ” and its principal ally might well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders need to start thinking now about how their countries can thrive in a post-west world . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in the ocean of polytheist faiths and in which israel can depend solely on its comparative merits in the eyes of a cynical , realistic actor who judges it solely upon its own set of national interest . that world will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . but that would presuppose a little gesture toward palestinians who regard them as being so deeply divided among themselves that no path toward a peace settlement seems possible .
he can not find enough spending to cut ( the magic asterisk has gone missing in a sleeve ) ; acceleration in gdp is nowhere to be seen ( a rosy scenario has vanished ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no other rabbit in a laffer hat hat ) . right now , the audience is told that losing tax revenue and a widening budget deficit was the plan all the way forward . the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” ” typically follows later , when , and when the us president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do not trump reality . the performer explains that the deficits are all the fault of the us congress for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise its budget deficit , because “ congress ” can not digest the money it had not . this trick never worked either .
march 21 is the first spring day , and we would like to believe that the upcoming european elections will herald a new spring for the european project . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around the symbol of our own unity and our future projects : and that symbol is a european flag . in one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire , benedict published a stirring call for tolerance and piety to restore a feeling of community in the face of nihilism and barbarity . march 21 also marks the end of benedict ’s death , its patron ’s saint of europe . for that reason , in january one of us , the idea that , beginning on march 21 demonstrated a flag on houses , factories , and offices .
in the united states , right-wing extremists have been carrying out far more assaults than islamists . according to the 2018 world terrorism index , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has been rising steadily since 2014 . this fits into a broader trend , in which assaults by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds end up categorized as “ acts of terror ” and address in highly resourced and systemic ways , with violent attacks perpetrated by other ideologies treating them as an isolated incident . but there is nothing durable about such incidents as such . the attack in christchurch was directly inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of which i am a handful of fortunate survivors .
the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project amounts to a fading memory , because germany , meanwhile , had forged a comparably robust strategy for reviving the eu ’s prospects and popular popularity . indisputably the strongest and most dependable figure of 28 member countries , it lacks a vision of where beleaguered europe is to be headed . the fruit of the franco-german partnership included europe ’s single currency . after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s new government , by from bonn to berlin , contented itself again with a lower-europe profile . that the modest , unassuming role belongs decisively in the past , even though german power was still matched by fantasy .
while the rest of the world is struggling to raise its savings rate , china , with an annual savings rate close to 40 % , is struggles to reach its people ’s consumption . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country is helping to fund america ’s war on iraq , just as a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people provides , while enormous needs at home imply ample room for expanding both consumption and investment . in fact , to fulfill the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and from resource-intensive industries , china must stimulate consumption . china has been engaged in what might be called the “ vendor finance , ” a money that helps to finance america ’s vast fiscal and trade deficits , allowing the americans to buy more goods than they sell . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce needed precautionary ” savings .
selling five-rupee sachets of shampoo to the poor are deemed clever marketing , but lending 5,000 rupees to the starving peasant at high interest rates is being viewed as exploitative . a high salary earned by a cosmetics or soft-power manufacturer is attracting scant attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor is inelastic , if not immoral . both activity , after all , is funded by investors seeking returns on their capital – and motivated more by their profits than their compassion . yet pmfis have succeeded by meeting an important need . but one is unambiguously less socially acceptable than the other .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or out-performing humans at a rapidly growing array of tasks , including some that requires elaborate cognitive capacities and advanced degrees . this process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse consequences on both the quantity and quality of employment have raised serious concerns . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for manufacturing job losses in the united states . to be sure , trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that the potential technology displacement of us workers is “ neither on the level of [ the administration ’s ] radar screen . ” nonetheless , there is a growing consensus among economists that an estimated 80 % of the loss in american manufacturing jobs over the past three decades was a labor-saving , productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade producing a distant second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could have done no mistake on economists ’ eyes . they saw a bright edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic across a wide range of high-tech precision and bikey-producing industries that produce tradable goods . they also saw an economy growing significantly faster than the north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same absolute and relative economy-wide productivity levels . and they saw an economy grow far more rapidly than the north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same absolute and relative economy-wide productivity levels . a safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed to suggest that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would proceed .
there are roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend outside the old , partitioned jerusalem ’s pre-1967 borders . likewise , conversely , israel is fighting two wars : just a war to defend its right to exist , accepted in its integrity and security in the middle east , and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and jewish settlements occupies home . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased in only a few 144 settlements , with more than 7,000 settlers in the gaza strip alone , in 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished plots already suffering one of the highest population denmark worldwide . israeli state support for expanding settlements is substantial . amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , claims that the currently palestinian-israeli war really consists of two wars : a “ unjust ” war against israel and jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state within an “ arab palestine ” and the palestinian people ’s “ only ” war for an independent name .
the market ’s reaction has been to send spanish government bond rates even higher . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy ; suffers a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are becoming more visible . in contrast to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . but they have since lost the touch of their touch . like aging wizards , they still struggle tricks that used to impress but that fail to deliver results , or , worse , demonstrate counterproductive .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will be no easy feat . back in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration was weighing in on how to respond to china ’s increasing economic might , some urged a us policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : an opposing china alliance would have been impossible , given china ’s enduring desire by america ’s neighbors to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that might be called “ integrate and containment . ” but there are currently levers in place that might help .
at the same time , the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” ” has always been misleading . interests and identities are shaped dynamically , as politicians make offering representation , and the citizenry they respond . trump doubtless , for example , has been successful in persuading some americans to see themselves as part of something like white identity movements . but that identity – and the way its adherents frame their interests – could change yet again . for the most part , farage did not bring about brexit all by himself .
they will facilitate interactions across their network to stimulate the development of innovation ecosystems . while the sheer size of many r & d organizations is bound to reduce such reform , the complexities of administering and maximization of the impact of this externalities will demand new skills and capabilities over and across those of the great sciences . developing and rewarding employees who possess such capabilities will be an additional but welcome , challenge . the resulting opportunities to expand far beyond traditional product lines and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering many health-care solutions . these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that support personalized medicine , along with so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ”
the social world is different from the physical world , because it is man-made , and hence hence almost infinitely malleable . economics is not the kind of sciences in which there might ever be one true model that works best in all contexts . and doing so will always remain artificiality , not sciences , especially when choices must be made in real-world settings . so , unlike the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing the better-off models , but by expanding its theory library , with each shedding light on another social contingency . the point is not “ “ to reach the consensus ” on which the model is correct , ” ” ” ” as romer puts it , but rather how the model applies best in a given setting .
as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and labor-manufacturing development , implying that india ’s government should redouble its reform efforts in the region . equally important , indian workers – especially young people – need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market centered on the easing of obsolete and complicated employment laws . today , the agriculture sector accounts for only about one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . india ’s formal sector ’s legal protections exceed those of most developed countries , as well as in china , with mandated requirements rising as its employees increase .
brazil ’s government , for example , has launched a “ investment partnership ” program ” to coordinate investment in finance and transportation infrastructure sectors . the new policy explicitly encourages chinese enterprises to work with local businesses in sectors like logistics , electric power , and information systems , and fosters interactions among the business , community , and government leaders . equally important , the policy also expands the availability of chinese funding , credits , and insurance companies . taken together , this holistic approach is something new to china . despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments in the region appear keen to be meeting china ’s reform efforts with inherent adjustment .
but the key word here is “ eventually ” . for now , it is far more important to examine trends in the potential determinants of chinese consumption . since that perspective , there is good reason for optimism , especially given the accelerated growth of china ’s services sector – one of the key building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing . eventually , of course , gdp composition provides the acid test of whether china succeeded . it is far too early to expect major shifts in the sources of aggregate demand .
to be sure , the us presidency grants trump considerable power to shape trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility of pursuing protectionist measures to appease his followers . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based support within the us for a return to closed borders . european multinationals also have large stakes in the chinese economy , and eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now make nearly double america ’s . many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a jobs threat ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers show little appetite for more protectionism . europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the opposite direction .
at the time he took the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin ’s market with a tune of $ 19 million . deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , had previously maintained a $ 10 million annual contract with manafort . manafort had also offered to brief deripaska on what was happening in the trump campaign . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal gently with men who displease him . after he took the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based worker , to the point of “ how will we use [ that ] come ” ?
egyptians and tunisians are right that they pride themselves on their desire to peacefully overthrow despotic governments . but , like someone who led a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism , since regime change has only been the first step in the establishment of a hindu democracy backed by the rule of law . ukraine ’s first lesson for both the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not make democracy . indeed , like my homeland , ukraine is now demonstrating following the revolutionary euphoria fades and the return of normality , with democratic revolutions likely to be betrayed and reversed . ukraine ’s first lesson for both the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not make democracy .
that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , the multimodal solution ( iris , prints , and face ) affecting more than one billion indians . increasingly , we are using our fingerprints , or our face to unlock our own smartphones , pay for their purchases , and board airplanes . nandan nilekani , the speaker of the infosys ’ party , which has left its work to create a system , known as aadhaar , credits it with saving india ’s government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicate and fake identity in government beneficiary lists . the protection against abortion is obvious : what use is a telephone , a car , or a ticket that works only for its legitimate owner ? above all , biometrics can be protected against the theft of us identity itself .
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at a time of great alarm in the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for the historic summit in london in december . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves throughout the world . many of the problems that spurred the london summit remain real . anxieties levels may have set back , in panels and stock markets , but the everyday drama for survival continues . the united nations and world bank predict that the direct and indirect impact of an economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world for quite some time to come .
were we to observing the appearance of someone with intimate knowledge of a catastrophes that is still coming to a head ? roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , discussing the forces that might defy the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first are the sovereign people who have poured into the streets of every large city in the country with the knowledge that , with regard to the overall voting , they are not trump , who has won an election . were we observing the appearance of someone with intimate knowledge of a catastrophes that is every way forward ? or was she only the hottest girl on a party ’s side – the one avid adolescent asked to dance and then hold onto tightly ?
and it is not as though congressional republicans think they owe sufficiently to simpson for him to swing a unified vote in either chamber of the house of commons . perhaps the simpson has a change of heart . obama officials assured me that simpson had , indeed , had a changing heart ; that he was clever with a ingenious understanding of the issues ; that he could sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( though he might not sway actual legislators ) ; and that it would make a genuine asset for the commission ’s substantive work . perhaps he traveled his own highway to damascus , come face-to-face with what he did and has been , repented , and sought to correct some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects that it had created . even in that case , however , naming those who are misbehaving toward important positions of high trust and aggrandizing them as bipartisan statesmen provide the next generation truly lousy incentives .
nonetheless , the greatest tfr declines in recent years have been in developing countries . what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average births per woman over her own lifetime . in the long run , a population claims to be stable if the tfr is at its replacement rate that is a little over 2.3 for the world as a whole and , somewhat lower , at 2.1 , for the developed world , reflecting its lower infant-mortality rate . the tfr for most developed countries now stands well below the replacement level . the oecd averages around 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , produce fewer than 1.4 children per woman .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad for business , there are actually three important channels through which regulation can benefit an economy . a number of regulations have played this standard-setting role . one is the market-making and market-growing role illustrated by the standard of gsm . the global regulation reach implied by giant economies of scale in the manufacture of handsets and network hardware , so that prices had been falling fast and netscape interoperability between networking and across countries was far easier to achieve . by 2004 , there had been more than one billion subscribers in gsm services worldwide .
laguna beach – when i contemplate the prospects of the global economy and markets , i am taking aback by the extent to which the world has collectively placed an enormous bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth , avoidance of policy mistakes , and avoiding market crashes . while all three outcomes are doubtless desirable , the hapless reality is that they are far from certain , with bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations alike . a first component of tibet ’s bets is more inclusive global growth – anticipations of continued economic recovery in the united states , with a 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also predicts that china ’s annual gdp growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , allowing the risks generated by pockets of excess leverage in the us-shadow-banking system , even as the economy ’s growth engines pursue a shift away from exports and public capital expenditure toward domestic consumption and private investment . another , more precarious assumption underpinning the tibet placing room for more inclusive growth is that the struggling eurozone and japan can escape the mire of low gdp growth and avoid deflation – which , by impelling households and corporations to delay purchasing decisions , would undermine already weak economic performance .
the two parties allowed the two parties ’ independent counsel to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later . for most americans , the belief that “ impeachment ” was a mistake was an argument in which trump himself would be a first term . for the time , many worried that hillary clinton impeachment would damage the presidency , but her own major impact on the presidency ’s power was the opposite . republicans ended up agreeing with the democrats that responsibility for this debacle had lies with kenneth rogoff , an independent attorney whose investigation of hillary clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier ultimately led him to lewinsky . now clinton ’s favorability rating has risen following the impeachment procedure .
though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the majority they do not lose sight of the benefits of eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , both major remainers backed the “ remain ” campaign , even though they were divided internally . to be sure , establishment leaders have a long history of trying to preserve their own skins by ramping up criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but that merely put sound ideas for alternate policies out of reach while inducing voters to direct their opposition to the eu itself . most recently , in may 2015 , large figures of the traditional labour party voters deserted its party to vote for uk independence party ( ukip ) , which was at the forefront of the brexit campaign .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . the weakening developing-economy incomes further is a slowdown in global demand and commodities prices , which , as the nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , have been disastrous for much of the developing world . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging-market aid player , ” is now at an economic and political crisis , as is south africa . these challenges are compounding developing countries by new financial regulations in advanced countries hampering investment and finance flows throughout the developing world . to cap it all , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling instability .
while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is far lesser , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern . for its part , iran seems relatively stable , at least compared to its own neighbors . pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and confronts an expansionist jihadi insurgency , which had previously attacked its military bases suspected of possessing nuclear assets . though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear violation , and its government continues to insist that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of political instability raise serious questions about its future . in the event of a regime collapse – an obscure possibility – it would be difficult to avoid a diversion of its own assets or even to use its weapons .
as for climate change , the election of a man who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to damage american business is apparently bad news . but this has not been a us-iran agreement ; it has been negotiated by six of the leading powers and endorsed by the united nations . those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures , say , by using its access to the dollar clearing system as an aid instrument – china seeks to do so through a coordinated set of action . for the uk , especially this might require a willingness to disagree on head-on with america ’s foreign policy in ways that some devotees of the us ’s “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . but global momentum to address the challenge of climate change may and must be maintained .
the most likely scenario , of course , involves some combination of both dynamics . ironically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new shia government , governed by conservatives and hardliners , actually fits into the region in a better way than the current one . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states also govern authoritarian hard-liners with little regard for de-escalation in regional conflicts . this would make a reform-oriented leadership resurgence in iran exceedingly difficult . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments cashes more closely toward a reform-oriented path , it should be obvious that whatever diplomatic work with respect to iran is far from complete .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously described the country ’s “ health ” health . as a result , a major recapitalization of the italian banking sector and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb npls was deemed unnecessary . ten years later , italy is no longer that envisioned a land of prosperous banks and lucky savers . the prolonged recession and economic malaise have dented individual savings rates , while the banking system no longer has the means to provide the kind of peace process to many retail investors , whose trust in companies had been severely eroded . the implicit pact between banks and savers was broken at the end of 2015 , when four troubled local banks had been bailed out and bond yields took a hit .
many poles remain wary of the church ’s equivocal posture toward democracy and are thus allergic to its aggressive presence in politics . kwasnieniewski 's seduction strategy appealed to large numbers of the young and the middle class , but the majority of all to peasant populations , the unemployed , those who are left behind by poland ’s rising economy . so the man who spoke a lot about the future rode into power saddled with a new electorate of the past . it is the sad paradox , indeed , that for many ex-communists , in opposing the church , pose as defenders of liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal . this link will the dog kwasniewski ’s presidency , not so much as it is .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist smallholders , but obstacles remain . “ partnership ” partnership donor countries can become an expensive backstop in themselves , merely delaying real action . perhaps the main risk stems from the fact that “ aid bureaucracies ” now trip over each other to try to each $ 20 billion each year , with much of it getting caught up through meetings , expert consultation , over-heads , news stories , and further meetings . if donor governments truly want the results , they should take the cash out of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies , and pool it in one or two trouble spots , the most logical being the world bank in washington , dc , and the international agricultural development fund ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these un agencies would then issue a few billion dollars .
at the new delhi summit , the brics leaders will discuss the creation of joint institutions , particularly the common development bank , which is able to help mobilize savings among countries . after all , the brics economies are probably the single most important source of future global growth . currently , the brics countries are representing relaxed , informal bloc . indeed , the brics might even be dubbed the r-5 , after its members ’ currencies do not become a true , ruble , rupee , renminbi , and rand . they represent more than one-quarter of earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves .
between now and may , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling a rise in real incomes . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear “ jobs ” competition , a sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties throughout europe . as it stands , britain , like their european counterparts , is feeling overtaxed for spook public services constantly , and angry about the decline in their incomes over the past five years . on the contrary , it must change the conversation in order to reassure voters that their own economic future is bright . a key difference in the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( over 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rate ) .
it is subject to what milton friedman has called “ long and variable lags ” lags . thus , policies aimed at boosting employment by quitting , say , cuni , would need to put this calendar year ago , to have time to catch up to the full effect . in fact , some countries – china , for example – have done so job-creation policies a year ago , and already see the benefits . still others , such as the united states , have not ; indeed , so that us unemployment remains at around 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration has not tried to boost employment .
imposing trade defense against such goods , even when legally warranted , is likely to create problems for globalized european companies . but , even when those measures worked as they should , large numbers of trade defense measures are probably not directed against anti-competitive business practices . for more advanced goods , the eu has an value added ( in the case of a fair part of a manufacturing process in europe ) . sectors with higher rates of human capital – e-consumer goods , for example – have much higher research and development costs than the shoe sector ; so manufacturing such goods on assembly lines in the us are probably not very costly in comparison to r & d and other intangible costs . many argue that such challenges are the price to pay to ensure that companies do not engage with anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult . america ’s legal system makes sure that firms produce defective and , especially , unsafe product , are retained liable for the consequences . firms are in far better positions than consumers to evaluate the safety of their product ; we all benefit from knowing that our legal system gave corporations incentives to pay attention to the safety of whatever they produce . likewise , environmental laws force firms liable for their toxic wastes ; and a number of countries , including america , have enlisted the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , companies have to pay for the damage they cause . after all , us corporations have no conscience ; it ’s only the conscience of those running firm ; and , as america ’s recent corporate debate has advanced all too clearly , conscience often takes a backseat to profits .
we need not look far for such a mission . the case for acting on a massive scale to fight climate change was made in europe and , even in brazil . or do they deny science , because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ? at the same time , why has there been so little discussion there to be such a mission ? is it because those who oppose such debates reject the science of climate change ?
meanwhile , iran ’s voters are poised to vote yes or no to the treaty of nice . forgotten what this treaty does not want to do ? enlargement is the most important item on the european agenda , and the treaty of nice is its cornerstone . well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that seek to slither around and through some practical issues , while postponing others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important , because it includes , among other provisions , all the ingenious technicalities of voting balances and power-sharing among eu institutions , which must keep being firmly in place before the union can admit the new members .
at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies began taking off , for example , by nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose the causes of asian poverty and to explain why its poverty appeared to be ineradicable . with hindsight ’s proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) it is pretty obvious that the growth patterns that prevailed over the past half-century were little understood , and seldom ( if ever ) predicted by economists . simultaneous pursuit of it is a powerful consensus developed among economists and policymakers that favored import-substitution policies then pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after beggaring their adherents , such policies are now totally discredited . the key point here is not just that economists got too much wrong , but that almost nobody got things right .
but wade had postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and later , by presidential decree , to june 2007 . a month before the election , only 64 % of polish citizens who had registered had won their voting cards . more than a half-century earlier , there were near-term talks about the possibility that the presidential election would be postponed indefinitely . on january 28 , a peaceful , but “ unauthorized ” demonstration by the opposition parties had been brutalized by the police and three presidential candidates since october . now it appears that a us presidential election will come .
princeton , raj – the crossroads of genetics and intelligence are intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former us president larry summers touched off one eruption in 2005 , when he tentatively suggested a genetic explanation for the difficulty that his university had on the recruitment of female professors by math and physics . ( he did not suggest that men are on average more talented in these field than women , but that there is some reason to believe that men are more likely than women to find at both the top and the bottom of the competency spectrum in those fields – and harvard , of course , appoints people at the extremes of the ranking . ) now one of the top-ranking scientists of our time blundered much more clumsily into the same minefield as predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize in describing the structure of dna , was in london to promote his memoir , avoid dull people and others from life in sciences .
kenyan presidents , on the other hand , traveled to china just six times over during the same period , most recently in may 2017 . china ’s current president , xi jinping , did visit zimbabwe in 2015 . zimbabwe ’s leaders had made the most of their visits to the press for trade and military cooperation , and its likely engaged directly with private chinese firms . mugabe ’s first visit to china came in 1980 , just six months after independence ; made 13 more during his tenure , and high-level visits by other zimbabwean government were even more frequent , occurring roughly once each two years during mugabe ’s rule . state visits in the latter direction have been more unevenly shared .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . in late 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees were experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : fewer than five years ago , and no “ immediate ” prospects ” delivered back home . of the 17.2 million people that the un high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , roughly half are under the age of 18 , which means that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childbearing , could lose out on the future just as surely . but , for young refugees missing out on education , the crisis can also be tracked with irreversible metrics : a passage of time . school-age children make up a huge share of the globally displaced population .
the “ felonies ” of whom greenspan stands accused are the additional charges : that he should have done more to backstop the stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done more to stop the us housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . but how serious are these policy-political crimes to which greenspan is now leading guilty ? against them , you must set out what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan the “ golden glove ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his many years at the fed . here , greenspan holds his ground and pleads not out of guilt . to be sure , he is misdemeanors in my opinion .
those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christians and arab democrats , and , of course , striving for a mere peace between israelis and palestinians . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing more than a preposterous caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . and it is better to know that history , should we wish to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes . those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitation , saving women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christians and arab democrats , and – of course – striving for nothing more than a peace process between israelis and palestinians . the truth is that bds movements are nothing short of a fanciful caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles .
indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop by reprogramming dna and cell without altering their genetic structure . in 1962 , gurdon ’s discovery that almost any bloody cell in the body contains the complete code of dna enabled him to create a tadpole by cloning an adults . before that , stem cells – which may potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or hedged tissues – could be subject to early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy . it is far too soon to discount genetics , but because the sciences of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms for turning genes into and off , thereby altering the way a cell develops without altering its genetic code – is gaining traction . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a way to trick complex adult cells in the mice into regressing its immature wield state .
but we need not wait until the root causes of displacement – and of state failure and civil war – are being addressed . the nature of the crisis in the mediterranean can not be piecemeal . the financial costs of patching its waters and rescuing those adrift have become exorbitant . the claims could be prioritized and processed in periodic ways , and the refugees could arrive in europe on a sound footing and prepared to work or study . the loss of lives is inexcusable , too .
harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s average annual gdp growth rate has soared to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . according to a more subdued estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 in 1990 , equivalent to 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . that is roughly the same gap that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that are also among the top 13 successful economies studied by the us growth commission . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address different structural problems , and develop its economy on the basis of its comparative advantage . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between four strues and america enabled the provenues to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % -9.2 % for 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should match that of 8 % for the 2008-2028 level .
unfortunately , like so many other international treaties , the convention on biological diversity remains essentially unidentified , un-championed , and unmet . that neglect is a form of human tragedy ; the best way to achieve it is to promote change . in 2002 , the treaty organization ’s signatories went further , committing themselves to a “ marked reduction in the current rate of atmospheric biodiversity loss ” until 2010 . for a very low level of cash outlay – and perhaps none at all on balance – we could rebut nature , and thus protect the foundation of our own lives and livelihoods . the signatories agreed to link biological diversity with the savings of species and habitats , and to use biological resources ( such as for forests ) sustainably .
in netanyahu ’s view , resolving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of this existential threat that will pave the way for the creation of a palestinian state . netanyahu is also aware that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . it is because netanyahu is driven by the almost messianic determination to stop iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that he might be amenable to a fundamental change of its position on palestine , provided obama makes visible headway in his drive to stop iran ’s nuclear program . just as john kerry , the speaker of the american senate ’s foreign affairs committee , has put it , “ this peace process is not a one way street ” on which the onus is placed entirely on israel . it remains to be seen if , at its core , the abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state agents are responding the ways that obama expects .
but there was a surprising surprise : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . so the us decided last year to learn whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today , or whether , given the revival of right-wing authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets have become more negative . we administered a identical questionnaire at both capitals in 2015 . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meetings this january . just as the imemo economists predicted the majority of the ( 66 % ) of those who answered that question in moscow thought it was unfair .
in the latter version of the eurozone , there is an differential credit risk , and eventually bank runs , de-euroization , and default : the common currency is at odds with the member states ’ needs . the prognoses for each case are starkly different , in every case . like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out south tech-emerging economies . in the ex ante , interest rates converge , and the default risk stands as nil , because , with the ecb backsliding on its members ’ liabilities , as america ’s federal reserve does , europe becomes “ local currency . ” and how often do we hear about sovereign-debt restructurings of local-currency debt ?
the republican party thus has a good chance of creating a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which could last for decades , especially if it won the presidency again in 2020 . that majority can erode the democratic checks , such as on the campaign-finance limits that were handled a devastating blow to 2010 citizens united decision . republican obstructionism in the senate has put other levels of the risky behavior of the federal system . in a five-4 majority , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations ” of individuals , ” ” and that any limits on the level of money us corporations might be allowed to spend on political campaigns have violated their first amendment right to freedom of expression . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , rates at which vacancies in american districts and circuit courts were stripped of its lowest point in 50 years .
lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail his administration further . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also visible elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential cast by a left-wing shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , obviously feel less vulnerable to the type of populist rule that we have seen in venezuela and bolivia . clearly , calderon ’s task will not be easy .
there is still time to react – by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over shortsighted policies – but that time is limited , and the clock is ticking . next year will be crucial , to signaling the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . no one wants the eu to fail because of its citizens ’ disaffection . there is a new german government , a european parliamentary election , and , at the end of the year , a new european commission . it is here that heats up , political leaders should take the lead .
one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambitions the ways in which it once opened its arms to china ’s gdp rise as an economic power , or – in earlier decades – cheered on by the rise of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today , we asians are witnessing , on near-everyday basis , ferocious political assaults on the tools and policies that helped lift hundreds of millions of us citizens from abject poverty . indeed , this year , freer trade seems to be the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues . colombo – as china ’s economic slowdown slows and growth in the advanced world – is working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge is to find ways to accelerate our own already steady economic growth .
more than 100 followers of ayad allawi , al sadr and others have joined their ranks . widely unnoticed , iraq ’s sunni and shia centralists have managed over the past few months to form a united parliamentary platform , leaving sectarian tensions behind . this supra-sectarian platform calls for iraq ’s central-government governance , along with the postponement of the looming referendum on settlement status held by the inner city of kirkuk . at the same time , change within the government has been noteworthy . here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in the region .
as matters currently stand , a case can be made that the french will never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization at all . so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless at politics ; they simply wait for a genuine leader . the french still expect a lot more from their government than from an integrated europe or an boundless world . political fervor does not seem to have vanished in poland of rousseau and danton . yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the us welfare state .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambitions running at an all-time low . but it may not be like that : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the deadliest forces driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . warsaw talks are the staging post on a pathway to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an accord to prevent dangerous climate change – defined as the consequences of global warming of more than two degrees celsius . failing that would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in poverty owing to increasingly frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . to be sure , basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem .
in a march 2015 letter to the g-20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks exacerbating irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . “ every year , ” we are already consuming around one-and-a-half of the planet ’s resource-related worth , ” ” ” the authors explained . “ infrastructure choices ” are needed to alleviate , rather than exacerbate , this situation . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warns that “ infrastructure development and long-lived products ” into greenhouse-gas-intensive pathways may be challenging or highly costly to change . and , indeed , the g-20 has established few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria of “ wish list ” ” on the mega-project that each member country is submitting to its summit in turkey in november .
while it is true that the effect of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be fixed without extra data , there are many arguments in its best . for example , the fed has pledged to keep interest rates low at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % , a move that has arguably lowered long-term borrowing costs . perhaps the most telling recent example of a central bank using forward guidance effectively was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . that pledge , in turn , merely stabilized borrowing costs and sharply lowered interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance for pushing for short-term policy interest rates .
indeed , just the opposite reaction is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . first , the us should consider establishing diplomacy with iran and putting diplomats on the ground . this would not be an easy process and might well satisfy substantial iranian resistance . but iranians have had diplomatic relations with other members of their main interlocutor in negotiating about its nuclear program , the sanctionalized p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and restoring iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten communication lines and closing the 44444-day chapter 1979-day chapter 1979-1981 . yet , just when america has adopted a “ bomb ” and talk ” approach with the serbs during the bosnian war ’s arab-israeli war , america must be willing and able to accommodate sanction and talking ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater space for an eventual diplomatic strategy .
at the ipl ’s glitz , glamour , and an excess lay an antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that has wrought economic stagnation in india for much of the past . other countries have followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . here was a venture that opened new vistas for business , firing off the imaginations of young people , to embody the entrepreneurial energies that owners , promoters , players , and supporters . anyone even watching the ipl might be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of play , really is an american game intentionally rediscovered by indians . to keen observers , the ipl represented more than a league of sports ; it signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india .
at a state whim , for example , they can be exonerated from pay taxes or have their posts and labor made unchallengeable by law . this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” idea , modernity in romania goes only deep . at the 20th century bc , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) would appear more like a “ neo-feudal state ” than a modern society . government banks , state sanctioned public-sector societies ( trade unions , for example ) , large state-owned enterprises ( soes ) act little differently in romania today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe . for here , a state is where groups , classes , even individual ones , struggle for the privileges that are afforded , not according to talent and work , but rather by the state ’s status in which one belongs .
but the fundamental problem is that , until now , at every historical juncture , the palestinians have refused to embrace compromise and consequently failed in nation-building . in 1947 , they refused the un partition plan , calling for the creation of two states ’ establishments in british occupied palestinian territory . on the other hand , diplomacy may have brought about the release of an israeli soldier and imposed a halt to firing qassam rockets from gaza into israel , a daily occurrence that has challenged the credibility of a new israeli government , under prime minister ehud olmert . in 1993 , after the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority , established under yasir arafat , became another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees . it was this failure that brought hamas to power .
in their minds , hard power in the united states matters more than its soft power , and their vision of an america “ bound to lead ” is largely unchanged . alternatively , and for very different reasons , a muslim-majority country awaits the rising possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . for them , america is above all a strategic counterweight needed to counterbalance china . in asia , indonesia may look to europe in its obama craze , but it has essentially made an anomaly , readily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump attacked kindergarten insults on each other – “ “ rocket man ” on the suicide mission , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” said trump of kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” while threatening to trickle down east asia to a post-atomic conflagration . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are to be met . north korea is the nuclear issue out of the hell of the day . kim has reportedly been willing to denuclearize and ardently seek talking directly to trump , whom he has agreed . but optimism about that turn of events must be tempered with cautious realism .
they have tended to have proactive and assertive foreign policies , and have aspire to more than middle-powers ’ status and limited artistic influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . south africa seeks a broader and more influential role reinforced by its apparent standing as a regional hegemon . nepad , a new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent and reasonable standards of economic and political development throughout the continent , has stood at the heart of this policy . despite its domestic problems and the loss of the global visibility that accompanied nelson mandela ’s retirement , south africa is still perceived as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . such powers seek an efficient and constructive regional role and perhaps , in certain instances , a global one .
indeed , turkey has never missed the chance that it will present itself as the regional broker . immediately following the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey proposed economic cooperation on the black sea region . it aspires to join the european union and would bring the eu within our three frontiers , even as the us continues to refuse to join a similar day . this year , as a american-led effort to mediate the middle east peace settlement began to falter , turkey took the jobs of mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict between syria and israel . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward again in to seize the leadership role of the gcaucasus .
like a neighboring country , india would face alarming consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as would iran , which does not sit idly by if sectarian strife intensified and the shi’a became targets of a resurgent taliban . the west needs to get out before the bloodletting starts in earnest . my fear is that the us has come to view the last stay of al qaeda or the taliban in afghanistan . indeed , throughout the region , apprehension is growing that once foreign troops leave , afghanistan will again descend into civil war , ultimately tipping the taliban back into power . that is why “ bringing troops home ” to early ” has become the prime objective of western politicians engaged in the region .
a market economy must rest on the economics principle of profits and loss . a law that applies to all other firms should apply equally to banks . and governments must respond to the banks ’ threats by declaring their willingness to allow insolvent banks to be judged accordingly . furthermore , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ bad loans to nonfinancial corporations , just as private purchaser current , fixed-term , and high-savings deposits by reforming insolvency laws . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equally to all of them is no market economy .
but gross capital flows are from the emerging market to the emerging market , through large banks now implicitly government backed by the states in the us and europe . from the perspective of international investors , “ too big to default ” banks are the perfect places to park their reserves – as long as the sovereigns in question remain solvent . when a similar story was issued early in the 1970 ’s , the so-called “ rectification of oil surpluses ” was , banks in western financial centers extended loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was wrong , because it led to a massive debt crisis in 1982 . but what will these banks do about the funds ?
the world bank urges aids “ the foremost african development threat . ” when they give way , it works with disease , despair , and victims hurled in the first place . but the transition plagues more than a health crisis ; they signify a deeper malaise . the companies in south africa stagger from losing so many workers to aids . so put aside that diseases are contagious and can be spread easily , or that the fortunate bear some of the moral responsibility of the well-being of the poor and the sick , and just consider the economic consequences of the transition plagues .
erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tensions between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january that year . but , with turkey having so far failed to meet previously agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terror legislation , that may not happen , an outcome that has become even more probable by a coup attempt . but , while that would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin with his orbit , plenty of eu leaders previously made strategic mistakes . that is why , for the coming months , with turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , it is so critical .
nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically endorsed the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . moreover , during his recent election campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected president , he would obstruct the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ controlling the entire region . ” as he well knows , settlements constitute a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state . the us should seize him at his word – namely , the islamic state . as long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied a home on their own , conflict arises .
it failed to prevent the money supply from borrowing early in the great depression . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender of last resort allowed the banking system to collapse . when financial stability hung to the balance in 1933 , the reserve banks ’ failure to cooperate prevented effective action . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching . but such reforms did go in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretion , more power to the board , and a larger role for the fed in allowing the federal reserve system to react more swiftly and robustly in crises .
new york – the american federal reserve board has pumped out of trillions of dollars of reserves , but never have so many of the reserves that have spawned so little monetary expansion . now , were the doves right , or simply lucky ? neither the hawks nor the doves ( or anyone else ) have been expecting that . pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently run a front-page article reporting that a monetary-policy “ doves , ” who had predicted low inflation in the united states had getting the “ hawks ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) would unleash more rapid price growth . the report was correct but misleading , because it failed to mention why so little overall inflation exists today .
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and detaining births have been shown to have cost reductions in newborn and child death rates . a guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 infant deaths annually . by reducing the rates of unwanted pregnancies , families planning also decreases the death rate from unsafe abortions . furthermore , cutting birth rates – which are extremely high in many lmics – would help reduce the strain on those countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the cost of maternal and newborn care and immunization services . this does not go only well toward single mothers .
the saudis also recoil under the barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much of the power . as defense minister , mohammad has pursued a saudi policy of supporting anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while lifting a war on pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at a massive humanitarian cost ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record , including the denial of elementary religious rights for women , is coming under constant scrutiny . against this backdrop , the kingdom is waging a struggle with its enemies .
then again , the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump keen on declaring an end to the longest period of international conflict in america ’s history before the 2020 us presidential election . at the same time , america has achieved many of its earliest core goals . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban , and america ’s impending reduction of america ’s military presence in the country , amount to a clear acknowledgement of this . america ’s failure to rout the taliban from afghanistan fully ruled from the opportunity for the country again becomes a haven in terrorists .
emerging-market officials earn accreditation by showing the ability to apply its knowledge practically to the issue . the ebrd aims to encourage training a critical mass of expert experts from ten or more countries in the us , creating the impression that fixing might become as respected as a qualification held by a chartered financial analyst or a us firm institute member . one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” ” a benchmarking index created by the economist intelligence unit that evaluates emerging-market countries ’ capacity throughout the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and former soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . the ebrd aims to encourage training a critical mass of experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that the bill might become as respected as the right people held by a chartered financial analyst or member of a data-management institute . emerging-market officials earn accreditation by showing the ability to apply their knowledge practically .
for its part , america ’s efforts , led by special envoy george mitchell , demonstrate clearly that israel ’s current ruling coalition is incapable of carrying out the minimum required for a peace deal . the obama administration has staked its reputation on getting israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on their security and borders . the results are mixed , at best . palestinians have complied with all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , giving a lip-service on the two-state solution , has so far elucicidate that israel ’s borders will be . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in occupied areas , in total violation of international law , and the minimal peace requirements detailed in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the “ quartet ” ( israel , the un , the european union , and russia ) .
the same story occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis began in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht and quickly spread to other east asian countries . it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by us commercial banks to foreign lenders . then , contagion booms , along with increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly short-term investors from developed-country markets , began withdrawing funds from other countries to disguise the losses that they incurred in economies in which crises had originated . with that , crisis spills across borders , affecting entire regions , or even the entire class of emerging economies . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt servicing had triggered a region-wide debt crisis in august 1982 .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda over the past few years , claiming failure to contribute to economic growth . but un research makes clear that when blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest , at best , not least because average project financing has fallen by more than two-thirds . in fact , debt is another side of the evolving dilemma . over the past decade , a joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor country initiative and an expansion of the subsequent multilateral debt relief initiative have made substantial progress on debt sustainability .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ midterm election in may ’s 2012 presidential vote – which will , alas , continue to rage at the summer – must reveal an alarming display of what american and its leaders are not aware of foreign policy . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by drawing several useful points on his handling of mandarin , some other candidates reacted with derision . to have even known the chinese perspective appears dismally for a huntsman , who soon put an end to his candidacy . debate after debate reveals the fact that neither candidate seeking to challenge president barack obama is especially uninterested in detail about any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot an international landscape , particularly those that do not involve us forces . indeed , ignorance appears to be the source of force for a candidate ’s continued in the race .
i helped launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria last april . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for at-risk and vulnerable children . the agenda includes building better school fortification , connecting schools to police stations through “ cell phones , ” and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people – to foster safe zones for education . a fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from businesses , the nigerian government , and international donors , and a multi-donor trust fund has been established at the un . the first set of schools has now received funding , with the first cohort of the most at-risk girls to be relocated to government schools in safer regions .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) in paris , they must address more than future cut greenhouse-gas emissions . they must also address the harm to people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not weigh on war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued robust growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . unfortunately , the projected consumption-spending improvements did not materialize . the rise in food and energy prices outpaced that of nominal wages , causing real mean daily weekly earnings to decline in january , with a steady fall in home prices lowering wealth for a muslim-majority household . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just over 1 % in january , down from a earlier quarter of ’s 4 % rise . a one-year cut in the payroll tax rate had been enacted to cap this favorable outlook .
when it comes to education , a report urges employer and us colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ” likewise , toyota “ built up ” its own advanced manufacturing technician program to provide a pathway to employee seeking career careers at company . instead , we are left with routine microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment , that is , using big data to match individuals with jobs that they will need to remain consumers . then again , we are told , future labor-market participants should be equipped to handle job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help them leap from one automated workplaces to another . for example , it highlights miami university that “ “ “ i ’m a product ” programs in animation and play field development , working with companies like pixar animation studios and google .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the consequences of tackling climate change are occurring far more rapidly than predicted . a united nations report on progress toward reaching the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger is actually increasing because of the number of malaria cases .
as a result of the program , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such plans , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste-management management , and economic development . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward this goal by 2020 , contributing to the growth of its economy . the basque country has established a program called local agendas 21 , intended to support the construction of local sustainability plans throughout the region . these local plans are now driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge-based sharing among municipalities that laying the foundation for further progress . meanwhile , south australia has developed the most supportive renewable-energy investment framework in australia , allowing a rise in renewables ’ share in power generation , from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
in the 1930s , the countries that brought up their tariffs and tightened their quotas most were those with the least ability to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that remained on the gold standard . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck in a deflationary vice became a deflationary vice . desperate to do something , anything , to defend their economies turned against protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly over-valued currencies . but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they had little to do with the run-up in output and prices . by doing nothing to stabilize rickety banking systems , they did nothing to bring about a stabilizing mechanism .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . hostages of an impossible coalition and the settlement movement by the far-right nationalist movement of nationalist fanatics – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leadership – are severely compromised . in addition , the palestinian authority has come neither , representing palestinians ’ majority , nor ruling through democratic means . indeed , his palestinian counterparts are hardly in any other position . nowadays , the shia clique that surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement did for palestinians .
but government intervention is critical to address the challenges facing developed-country workers today , which markets can not address on their own . countries that experience high and rising economic inequality often face down political instability and policy dysfunction . as policymaking becomes erratic , losing credibility , and become choked by gridlock , growth suffers , with the chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline . the result is a vicious circle , in which government finds it increasingly difficult to do what needs to be done . this has fueled an acute perception of hopelessness – especially among men – that manifested in rising levels of government participation , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : abu tottenham hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” ” while the us arsenal was “ iranian . ” vestiges of these markings remain : alain of amsterdam , for example , still taunted by provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ” and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , remain divided by religious affiliation , celtic being catholic , and rangers protestant . but a shared race or ship-driven religion is not indispensable . the tribe can be the club , the clan , or the nation .
this flies in the face of the central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries farthest from the targets would benefit from the quickest progress . moreover , in the language of the sdgs , “ nobody should be left behind . ” in a new imf-world bank spring meetings , saving children presents a glaring gap between health risks that are strongly skewed toward their poorest children and the benefits of public spending are often skewed in favor of better-off households . the world bank could help improve accountability for meeting that commitment by working with un and national agencies to track and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are being narrowed . it is also the issue of spending more equitably .
two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices have tripled , while electricity consumption is down to two-thirds by the end of two decades ago . my personal recollection of north korea , now nearly ten years old , is of a poor , depressed country . my trip came on a rather optimistic footing in april 2002 . kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor when he entered the opera house that today marks public mourning of his own death . pyongyang , a capital flight , is murky and barreled , illuminated , illuminated by a cavalcade stripped from official housing to an opera house , only to revert to darkness behind the us .
the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to ensure that they are full and equal members of society are to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . such large-scale change is not easy to achieve , but when girls can stay in school longer and experience decent job opportunities available to them after graduation , they are likely to marry and bear children subsequently to do so . but there are other gender targets to be considered . in rural india , for example , well-paid back-office jobs have visited randomly selected villages in less than three years . female employment has risen , and women aged 15-21 have been 5-6 % less likely to marry or provide birth over this period .
while trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s own remarks , us vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that if north korea offered no deal at all , it would in fact be met with libya ’s own fate . vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan has delivered the north a enraged response : “ we ’re not hiding our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” choe son hui , us vice minister of foreign affairs , replied by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” when washington stuck with “ illegal , outrageous ” belligerence . without much interest in a dialogue aimed at coerced “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ” the “ world knows all too well that our country is neither libya nor iraq , ” which have met miserable fates .
after nearly 15 years of unprecedented gdp growth – interrupted only by a brief deceleration in 2000-2001 – the united states amassed a massive stock of its foreign liabilities , equal to 25 % of its gdp . with america ’s current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , american foreign debt is rising fast . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what might not last sooner rather than later must end . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit hit $ 120 billion , roughly a third of the level today at current prices – the rest of the world stopped funding it . the outcome was an abrupt collapse in dollar values , which had depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark .
princeton – the united states has moved from its high point of view of us presidential elections to the low one short week of a political gender scandal . for many non-americans , the election has brought barack obama a welcoming and comforting victory , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as cia director was an unnecessary , self-inflicted , wound . indeed , both elections and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of greater magnitude : an america that lives up to its promises . the us election has reminded many americans that the us is a country that is committed to and capable of making progress , in the long run , of moving forward toward an ideal vision . for many americans , the election has shown what is best about a country only to follow the sad familiar process of knocking heroes off its pedestals .
in fact , one key reason for creating the international monetary fund was to track exchange-rate movements with the explicit aim of impeding beggar-thy-neighbor policies . the first casualty would be whatever small scope remained for international political coordination . the other would be the world ’s international monetary system . this is one reason why the swiss move comes as a surprise . it is true that the cfa franc has appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 .
the country ’s current unemployment rate is currently at an all-time low , with gdp has grown by almost 10 % since 2013 . likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , combined with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in much of western europe . add to that a functioning welfare system , and it becomes clear why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere has gathered little traction in germany . appeals by björn höcke , the afd ’s state leader in tunisia ’s “ 180-foot-dragging ” to the united states , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposing of ” germany ’s minister of integration in anatolia , repelled voters . the second commonly cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength .
massive fines have been imposed on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . us president donald trump is attempting to move in the same direction . his steady branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies of the people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred labels for news : the lügenpresse ( lies press ) . china and turkey , both olympic-level jailers of journalists , have ramped up their repression in recent years . just last month , russian president vladimir putin enacted new laws authorizing the sanctions on individuals and online media for spreading so-called fake news and information , which “ disrespects ” the state .
without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa is struggling at the subsistence level . bush ’s africa commission , like the un millennium project , has found that , for the first time in history , africa needs around $ 50 billion per year in aid . america ’s fair share of the global fund comes at around $ 15 billion a year . yet official american aid to africa amounts to just about $ 3 billion a year , and much of that covers pay for american advice rather than investing in africa ’s own needs . bush might think that america is doing much to help overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minimal .
how the world responds to north korea will likely affect the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . for now , north korea constitutes the ninth status with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , india , and pakistan . sustaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers will go far more difficult — and the consequences of failure far more destructive . the danger is that the us may be quickly approaching a tipping point . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( therefore far ) at the annual united nations security council resolution 1718 that condemns the test , demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and imposes numerous military , political , and economic sanctions .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be executive director of the national trade council – the new white house policy department store to be ranked on par with the us national security council and the national economic council . the titles of his two most recent books – the death by china ( 2011 ) and crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – speak volumes of his tabloid-level biases . ross and navarro were also co-authors of the economic-policy position papers , published on trump ’s web site that has stretched any semblance of credibility . the industrialist wilbur ross , ceo of yale , has been vocal in his bid for an abrogate america by the “ dumb ” deals . navarro is just one of america ’s most extreme hawks .
but , because policymakers consistently threatened to exit qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to a sustained stimulus . as a result , the euro-dollar exchange rate barely shifted ; in reality , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the ecb then declared victory , and its abrupt withdrawal , just when europe ’s economy slowed . the clash of interests among the eurozone ’s member states is a straightforward one . eurozone inflation has become the “ de-anchored ” of monetary-policy decisions .
experience suggests that us importing laws and the rule of law rarely work well . for centuries , western legal arrival with colonial rulers sprang up . even after europe ’s empires had retreated , laws were still being exported to foster development in postcolonial countries . in many cases , however , such imported laws were all but ignored , selectively enforced , or comply with nothing in form , rather than substance . america ’s antitrust legislation , when transplanted to japanese after world war ii by general macarthur , led to just six criminal prosecution during 30 years .
as jesse reynolds of the centre for genetics and society writes , “ just as traditional newspapers ’ business model is to extract revenue not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomic companies see the potential profits not from the consumers themselves but from compiled databases – presumably in the form of sales of access . ” drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase biobanks on which they can then test their products for differential responses according to patients ’ genetic make-up . this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more efficient therapies . but other firms have been charged with having more interest in developing a “ biobank ” of samples and data than at any genetic testing . there is certainly nothing wrong with that , but it does seem odd that customers effectively pay a firm for donating their dna to a database .
even with german-level interest rates already high , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp , still quite large , and far removed from today ’s deficit . and , with the face value of greek debt unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger . european banks holding greek government debt could keep pretending that it is worth the fuls . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to refuse greek bonds as collateral . the question is whether a change in coupons – possibly coupled with an extension of maturities – would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth .
the combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it more difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . against this background , “ neoliberal ” reform policies – such as the rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – have made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . excessive fiscal and monetary expansion have made these economies unstable . venezuela is a case in point . current-account deficits have grown , resulting in frequent foreign-exchange crises .
in fact , portugal is so an accurate tuned to consumer tastes that the shifts can indicate changes in a company almost immediately . movies produced for consumer gratification expose cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . interestingly , many purveyors of pornography initially thought that better-quality videos were making their product more desirable . nevertheless , high manufacturing values seem to have become less popular . thus , a “ casual ” manufacturing style was adopted analogous to that designed by meted and tore jeans .
clowns have always played a part in politics . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done – and continues to do – the same . but he has never aspired to a country to run a country . neither a clown nor an tycoon is well suited to being a democratic leader . the question is the worse .
eventually , the cities and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation will provoke a countermovement . so , by wanting to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , bold solutions will have to come . if they price out , or otherwise exclude those earning less , they will sacrifice the openness that made them attractive to first place . during an earlier , urban-based lived dynamism in the early sixteenth-century us , affluent merchant families built lower-rent residential housing that were then allocated to the poor . one such project , the fuggerei complex at augsburg , germany , still provides low-rent social housing for that day .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond sé , at the start of the twentieth century , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , exiled themselves from the republic . nor did pierre mendès france in the 1950 ’s hesitate to tell communists that they did not want their votes to support his rule . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the proponents of the french algeria that they ultimately failed to understand them . france must now recall these great moments in its republican tradition , and hold them up as a model for today ’s leaders . for what will be required to hold the territory that the republic almost loses to the fn is political courage of a sort that is simultaneously on its short-term supply .
and we know that those landings have created a uniquely bonds between our respective histories . but with the end of the cold war , many assumed that its institutional embodiment , the north atlantic treaty organization , would fade away . that bond remains vital to maintaining our values and our security . it could no longer fade away than our desire of freedom might wane . it did not , because our attachment is based not only on shared threats , but on our own shared ideals .
they devised “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . i hope that this issue fails to deride a chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to show the world that their country has emerged yet again as one of the world ’s great leaders . china does , in fact , no favors by remaining a time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s ’s , when discussing the issue . is it really beyond its political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet , which recognizes its own cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? the chinese have been so clever in so many areas .
sarajevo , ever since the twin disasters of 2016 , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election have created widespread anxieties about a “ worldwide wave ” of populism , with hand-wringing over the lies of so-called outright democracy . in the uk , brexit has been urged to answer an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries have been handed brexit to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , there have been calls to re-empowering the “ gatekeepers ” who are a polite way of saying that the unswerving masses should be kept as far away from political decision-making as possible . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
berkeley – to fix a problem is not enough . in fact , you need to implement a solution – and be willing to change course if it turns out not to be quite as widely believed . that is the message of two recent books , which , collectively , tell you all that you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what has caused it , what can be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things have already gone far enough . the first book is the shifts and shocks , from the conservative british journalist martin wolf to beginning by cataloguing the big shifts that set the stage for an economic disaster that continues to shape the world today . his starting point is the massive rise of wealth among a world ’s richest 0.1 % , and 0.01 % , and putting consequent pressures on people , governments , and companies to assume increasingly unsustainable debt levels .
such peer networks can elevate contents on the basis of factors like clicks or engagement among friends rather than accuracy or importance . the second feature of the digital information age , a direct by-product of democratization , is socialization . rather than receiving our information directly from the institutional gatekeepers , who – despite its often-flawed execution – were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , we acquire it today through peer-to-peer sharing . this has its benefits ; but it also carries serious risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic norms of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , it is no longer founded on a common set of fact .
of course , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated . robert putnam , a leading scholar in america ’s declining sense of community , has found that a tv viewing is a central explanation of the decline of “ social capital , ” ” the trust that binds the communities together . government simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago . moreover , heavy tv viewing has been conducive to social fragmentation . the time that has used to be spent collectively over the community is now spent , on average , on his own .
with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , america continues to enjoy a dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . it flatly contradicts china ’s leaders ’ repeated assurances that , with china ’s rise , the rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peaceful ties to the international community . in fact , this dangerous and irresponsible activism is yet another key sign that the rise of china as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will become a peace-loving nation as soon as its age rose to power . lurking behind china ’s space ambitions is its own spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the military high command ’s inner circles , whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . but , since the 1980 ’s , america has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts .
illegality and wrongdoing have been artfully cloaked as incontrovertible , science-tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” today , it is the turn of the molecular genetics of the word . distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny has been inculcated on dna molecule , and science-popularizers join a exultant choir asserting that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities . temperament , obesity , cardiac disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminality : all are said to reside in genes . each time a new , empowered scientific formulation appears to have to pass a period of abusive app .
around its fresh-turesque squares , each cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne silent witness to the bloodletting that accompanied empires ’ rise and fall . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; but , for five days each summer , she hosts the alpha jazz festival sponsored by a russian bank . at a time when russia and ukraine are still very much at war , policymakers , local citizens , ukrainian diaspora members , and even some russians pack the streets of lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . yet ukraine is also where one can find hope for europe ’s promise . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine is strategically vital to its west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact and proposed policies , but tentative reading indicates limited short-term benefits at large longer-term costs . obama has outsourced details to the us $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress , and , no surprise , old home barons busted with pork and social engineering facilities . several months later , just 4 % -6 % funding has been spent , and the federal government is brow-beating state governments , for example , demanding that california rescind a small pay cut for some unionized workers , or losing $ 7 trillion in stimulus funds . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands has been an emerging characteristic of the administration . ) the administration is exploiting the atmosphere of crises to enact a massive agenda that would re-engineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to health care , power , and income distributions .
unfortunately , in a world without shared institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of an all-out war will increase substantially . moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration hardly ever talks about upholding the us-led postwar liberal international order . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , in which america should look out for itself alone . as europeans well know , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean . to be sure , the us says it is sticking up its commitment to european security .
china ’s growth has been fueled by labor-intensive exports made more competitive by technology transfers and knowledge transfers from the us and other western countries . america ’s employment has accordingly shifted toward higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting higher incomes in america , too . this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by very high – and recently with excessive – saving ) , has underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . america ’s consumer system , meanwhile , has benefited enormously from declining relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . the old model served both parties well in three decades .
when russia annexed crimea and dragged war in eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . then came trump , whose administration had drawn the rug from under europe legs , abandoned america ’s leadership within a rules-based international system , and pursued a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy . this is not the first time that nato seemed to be at its recent legs . many arrived at the same conclusion before 2014 , when the alliance had little to focus on beyond its missions in afghanistan . a profound change in us strategic priorities under president donald trump is demanding that europeans revisit long-held assumptions of their collective defense .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently squeezing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . by 2020 , the us stimulus had run out , and a modest fiscal drag would pull growth from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . second , because the stimulus was ill-timed , the american economy is now overleveraged , with inflation rising above the target . meanwhile , rising inflation in other keynesian economies is contributing further inflationary pressures . as a result , america ’s federal reserve will continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current level of 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and this will likely push up short – and long-term interest rates , much like the american dollar .
in fact , american and british troops may have only themselves to blame . heightened sandy drift was one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war . that is because a desert in the region normally has some crust ; what arabs call “ desert blood skin , ” consisting of sand and clay particles , who have been baked together or sintered , through warmth and sun . at times that little crust is strong enough to transmit a person , and sometimes not , much like the tough ice crust that develops on colder climates . under the crust , states ’ particles are cut down .
other women , such as his mistress judith campbell , supposedly had sexual relationships with mafia figures as well . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded ever since – a process that , like so much in american culture , has been playing out on television . likewise , a series of “ mad ” men , ” ” ” ” with their dashing advertising executives consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs the emptiness , and destructiveness in early-1960s ’s male sexual privilege . this reappraisal of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s , occurred in other arenas as did , in response to reinforcing the transformation of kennedy ’s image from charming playboy to dangerously compulsive predatory predator . popular numbers like “ good wife ” ” reveal the pain and misery of such political spouses , who are expected to retain a stiff upper lip and ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards .
amazingly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , equal to roughly 2 % of the bank ’s total loan and credit exposure of just the one current hedge fund ! ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial-market crises . when push came to great shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did n’t simply let “ market forces ” take their course . one central truth of the last year is that financial-market problems lie not only with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gambits – but with good old commercial banks that display uncanny ability to create trouble by excessively risky gambling , whether in loans to emerging markets or to enjoy the likes of ltcm . the banks that had loaned huge sums , most of them had been unwound , to ltcm , are just another $ 175 billion of short-term borrowing to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) , and then abruptly reversed gear , yanked off tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 .
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination receive a lot of attention nowadays . even the world economic forum was transformed into a “ international organization for public-private cooperation . ” of course , private-private coordination was at the heart of economics for the last 250 years . while adam smith began the us , on the optimistic belief that the invisible hand would take care of most coordination issues , in intervening periods , economists have discovered all kinds of market failure , informational imperfections , and incentive problems , giving rise to rules , regulations , and other forms of government and societal intervention . a plethora of business-sector studies and government-to-government coordination centers has been created , with researchers producing a large literature on design , analyzing , and evaluating public-private partnerships .
healing from the damaging impact that trump is inflicting on america ’s institutions and political culture could take years ; if it does , it could carry significant economic costs . the president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading his effort . while it is easy to be cynical ( some would say that the new program is just an excuse to cut funding from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms could massively upgrade and training is a good thing . but while the trump administration has strengthened america ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger is rather gloomy . for starters , a broad range of studies , from work by the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson , find that institutions and political culture are the singular determinants of long-term growth .
putin is confusing how to counter the threat posed by slow growth . his main proposal so far has been the “ eurasian union ” ” – an expanded version of the current customs union between russia , belarus and kazakhstan . that would provide a platform to re-establish trade , transportation , and other links among the ex-soviet countries , and thereby capture regional markets for russian products , guarantees russian jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political clout in its older neighbours . most economists now believe that russia can not sustain annual gdp growth at a rate exceeding 2 % without another sustained surge in oil prices . however 2 % growth ( the venerable rates of an advanced economy ) would represent a severe blow to russia ’s own and putin ’s personal prestige , and might jeopardize domestic stability if jobs disappear in critical production industries .
with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy image of their countries ’ own institutions no longer acting , one can hope that assessment will be even more robust than earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . such tests , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . several of the banks that passed with flying colors , were soon given a strong obligation to raise new capital . to be sure , the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential horrors to be visible before a takeover – in order to avoid being blamed . but the creation of a european banking union was not the only important change to europe ’s financial regulation since the crisis .
not all succeeded ; but these successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . and , once again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve . the key to ensuring europe ’s social-security systems – and thus its social model – is faster growth . the obstacles to growth are well known , and have existed for a long time without being eliminated . the reason is quite straightforward : if there were a politically easy route to growth , it would have been implemented already .
many state-owned enterprises had been privatized for ten times the money yielded in asset sales under former cbr shevardnadze 's predecessor . gazprom 's aim is to control not only georgian gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russian gas against both georgian and armenia . typical was a russian holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which managed to obtain a major gold mine , and then perhaps a half-way plant producing a gold alloys . to be sure , russia ’s main foreign-policy tool in georgian enterprises is gazprom , a state-owned gas monopoly . but an utter lack of transparency has allowed russian firms , with their third-party subsidiaries now registered in non-member countries , to snap many of the new offerings .
the renewed fighting , coming just eight months after a promising peace initiative that is known as the “ goma treaty , ” means more civilian deaths , and little chance of normality returning to the eastern region of congo . yet , even at a time when fighting a less intensive congo suffers from the indirect effects of war . a un mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that such a conflict is the world in its most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died because of war and its lingering effects over the past decade . as always , key victims are civilians who are caught in the crossfire . today , a quarter-million displaced persons are running , almost half of them on rebel-controlled territory and barely access to aid .
henry kissinger once said that “ peace ” can be achieved only by a state of hegemony or a balance of power . perhaps the same could be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . like all economic activity , it flourishes when property rights are respected , taxation is efficient and purposeful , credit letters , tariffs and other barriers are removed , and so on . it is no accident that great eras of globalization – decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 years – have been characterized by a balance of power and hegemony , respectively . to be sure , trade requires something more than the absence of conflict .
our education system can no longer afford to wall itself away from the industrial world . externships offer transparency and accountability to educators , and imbue a spirit of fearlessness in their students . for smes , externships provide much-needed creative manpower . when properly integrated into a student ’s educational community , externships can provide the competitive edge over college app essays and campus , or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to differentiate twenty-first-century leaders from competing top-scoring hordes . for larger firms , they are the avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in middle-income households with per capita incomes of less than $ 2 per day , essentially just the same standard that the world bank uses to define a system of destitution-level poverty in india or africa . beyond that , there is america ’s much-vaunted “ vaunted ” equality of opportunity . finding shelter in the united states on this income scale is so difficult that $ 2-a-day poverty is almost surely far worse in the americas , and arguably far worse in india or africa . elite schools recruit affluent to pay their bills and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fuels resentment among the white working class whose children find no room in this brave new world . the towns and towns that lost their factories to globalization also lost their tax base , finding it hard to retain quality school – the escape route for future generations .
still others might use the service , such as intercom , to gain insight into their user interests – from their preferences in the music to their favorite hobbes – to offer more personalized service . website startups might even wish to check their users ’ profiles on the angel list of angel investors , viewing them as a potential source of finance . once a company identifies which user has the highest influence , sophisticated bloggers , for example , may offer them better treatments , in the hope that they will recommend the service . indeed , many online services now offer to link users with their facebook friends or linkedin contacts , or recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current locations . some people do n’t want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities attempting to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unfamiliar actors knowing so much about them .
french catholics are now feeling as though their historically privileged position is under attack , owing to the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks and legislation that has increasingly challenged its ways of life . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , while left-wing catholics have found themselves crammed by the far right . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu , with its conspiracy theories , talk shows , online trolling , and fake news fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters also reject multiculturalism , and have responded to their status anxieties by dispelling the relevant expertise . with france becoming less catholic , and america becoming more heterogeneous , their own zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election victory and fillon ’s political ascendance have shown , they can not simply be written off .
for better or for worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by pulling back or adding paper assets held by privately owned banks . when they want to spur economic activity , central banks buy from private banks commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . the banks then hold more cash in order to lend . and vice versa when the authorities want to keep the economy cool . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money it wealth transfers from its bank account to their libra stock , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy .
with america ’s 2003 invasion of iraq , french-american relations reached a low point . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that about three-quarters of french voters believe france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliances dating back to the american revolution and including two world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the iraq war was n’t the first to say that a controversial security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show a similar reaction after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the un , while french president jacques chirac felt reaffirmed in his fears of a sole superpower and of his call for an advanced world .
after all , a core corporate social responsibility principle is that firms should pay their fair share of tax wherever they operate . tax competition is not the way it goes , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investment , especially in the developing world , which , according to a 2015 report by the international monetary fund , loses more than $ 200 billion a year due to tax avoidance by multinational corporations . they can do this in a broad range of ways , such as by investing in education , providing financing for scientific and technological research , and constructing efficient infrastructure . when countries create effective tax regimes that are designed to steal tax revenue from the others , the result is less money spent on education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and provisions on curbing climate change . this should not be allowed , and multinational companies should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes go cut .
broad market returns are likely to remain lower , with episodes of volatility probably more frequent . what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs has coincided with the bull markets . an index performance has largely dictated security selection , and asset allocation has meant little more than stockpiling into stocks , bond prices , and credit . but those days are likely to pass . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stocks and bond valuations , decelerating economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty .
cambridge – economics teaches that measure an individual ’s well-being is the quantity and variety of the goods that he or she can consume . consumption opportunities are in turn maximized by giving firms the freedom they need to seize the new technologies , the division of labor , economies of scale , and mobility . consumption is the goal ; production is the means to do it . markets , rather than community , are the unit and the object of analysis . nobody can deny that the consumer – and the market-centric vision of the economy – has yielded plenty of low-hanging fruit .
some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . but further increases are not guaranteed , either . fragmentation – implying the end of the internet . a fragmented “ splinternet ” ” ” ” ” would be hugely costly worldwide , but that is one of the plausible futures outlined last month at the us global internet governance report , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the internet now connects almost half of the world ’s population , and another billion people , along with some $ 20 billion of devices , are predicted to connect over the next five years .
likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications over past years reflects the innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software – for example , that was indigenous to america . but it was not a great inspiration for the future , which may have helped to explain why roosevelt ’s new deal was unable to end america ’s economic malaise . the “ fracking revolution , ” widely viewed as originating in america , helped to lower energy prices and wiped out america ’s dependence on foreign oil . that sounded like a pleasant experience , perhaps a learning experience , for young males who would otherwise be idle and unemployed . by contrast , the apparent relative power of the american economy today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations .
and roughly 445 million more people will need to improve access to safe water supplies – part of the reductions in unpaid care work that women make in the developing world . this ambitious agenda will not be effectively delivered without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require complementary investment , gender-related outcomes for women , and bringing measures to help women move to more productive work . mgi has identified a handful of interventions worldwide that could easily be deployed more broadly . steps proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools ; ensuring that girls are provided with the sanitation facilities at the areas they study ; and creating financial incentives , including cash transfers , to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
predictably , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments use coercion – prohibited under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees . the unhcr , as currently conceived , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency it claims to be . but , like the unhcr , the issues of governance plague the iom . heavily dependent donors and host governments for launching relief operations , it is beholden to their interests , and no always have the political backing it needs to get the job done . the other major multilateral migration agency , iom , assists at the return of migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced people of origin , or of other countries or regions that agree to accept them .
with political gridlock blocking an adequate fiscal response following the 2008 financial crisis , the united states congress failed to pass an annual budget , a fundamental component of responsible economic management for the previous five years , forcing central banks to bolster economies artificially . to do this , they relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures like quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation . meanwhile , corporations have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their corporate tax bills , including through the so-called inversions , by which they shift their headquarters to higher-tax jurisdictions . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly tends to favor the wealthy , who hold an disproportionately large share of financial assets . as a result , most countries face a trio of income inequalities , wealth , and opportunity , which left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences .
but how long can anyone be expected to support “ god and guns ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ” migrants ? all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat in the populist dress – that is , pluto-populist . but why have his base let him off by pursuing policies that mostly put them in harm ’s way ? according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters in rural areas would vote in the name of nationalist and religious sentiment , and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than their own monetary interests . and even the us administration ’s plan to favor skilled over “ unskilled ” workers wo n’t necessarily reduce the number of legal migrants in the countryside .
the leave received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom at that time , 59 % of russians regard it as special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . sadly , february 23 is not the only remaining relic of the red army . while every other large european country abolished military conscription in recent decades , russian continued with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens between 18-27 are bound to serve for about 12 months . another soviet military legacy is a system for obligatory conscription . exemptions consist in medical conditions , giving university students and staff to particular organizations ( e.g. , polisario front ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a major and profound crisis , though possibly one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , home to 163,000 square kilometers , – more or less than twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg – that contains a population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation , in their respective climate , history , and culture . it was once a compound of the cultural dynamism and influence of the roman catholic republic and its empire . the first african region to be christianized , were land-based saint augustine and the main source of catholic evangelism in africa .
but the fact that a well-known cartoonist was forced to dress up the guilty image speaks volumes about the fears felt by independent journalists in the arab world . for his part , khashoggi ’s disappearance has only deepened their anxieties . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists who toe an official line , while punishing those , like khashoggi , that dare to speak truth to power . true , any arab citizen , virtually anyone , knows precisely who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman ( mbs ) . having the failed arab spring revolutions , of whom tunisia is the sole success story , citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule .
third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereigns wealth funds . reversing financial liberalization will be hard to do , but its adverse side effects , including more systemic risk , will require a set of reforms . first , more data and transparency about our complex assets – and who holds them – are needed . second , complex tools should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and be standardized so that liquid secondary markets for them can arise . fourth , the role of ratings agencies needs greater rethinking , with more regulation and competition introduced .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . arabs must take charge of their own agenda and become the primary force defining their country ’s future and that of their countries . for starters , the region ’s governments need to cultivate their own national-security capacities , defend against non-existential threats and hegemonic expansionism . to be sure , they should continue to engage with the outside world by reinforcing their geopolitical relationships and alliances . but they also need to become less dependent on the rest of us .
now a new paper by servaas storm effectively demolishes another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that labor markets “ rigidities ” ” depress both output and employment . one of the empirical investigations most frequently cited for this argument is a paper by timothy besley and robin burgess using manufacturing-based data across indian states during a period of 1958-92 . besley and burgess claimed to have shown that pro-worker regulation in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that had failed to adopt such regulation . this conclusion came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation was harmful to industrial overstretch , and that the way in which production and employment were just growing in manufacturing was to support more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws protecting workers . that wisdom prevailed not just in india ; it interfered policies accordingly across a broad range of developing countries .
britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . swelling migration pressures threaten to override any pretense at border controls . safety concerns increasingly implicating foreign and domestic policies in the here and now . a recent political cartoon has revealed british bombers picking up on a mission-related mission , with one pilot suggesting to the others , “ it seems a long way to go to the bombings a few young men in south london . ” and yet , in asia , environmental hazards have drawn on brexit .
such laws , already agreed but not fully implemented , should serve as a catalyst for a new country ’s institutional arrangement within the country ; one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and people ; and the progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . after that election , possibly heady with the magnitude of his support , chávez has proposed deepening his revolution with new laws governing the organization of society and the economy . given this history , it is realizing that , in his speech the day after his victory , chávez called for “ coexistence , dialogue , debate , and each working together for the rights of venezuela . ” he stressed that the people voted in favor of chávez and socialism . meanwhile , all public-power bodies – all – now follow chávez .
on occasion , however , the damage is not repaired . if the damage does occur in the key genes that regulate cell growth , it may develop cancer . if our bodies have elaborate repair systems that maintain the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of damaging agents . at the same time , genes can damage environmental externalities , such as radiation and chemicals , for example . they may also damage the goods available to standard metabolism .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . ithaca – the internet once hailed as a powerful democratizing force – would allow innovative start-ups to compete with established firms , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but , as some of those startups have grown into the behemoths , they have turned that strength on their head . far from leveling the playing field , large tech now owned it , and rather than democratizing the us economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the world ’s inequality problem .
yet , for the most part , the developing world can make a bad situation far worse . in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time for sino-us cooperation , ” saying that by “ working together , we may be able to accomplish more than [ by ] alone . ” still , one leaves astonishment whether this newfound collaborative bonhomie and racial bonding will prove strong enough to cut through not only the long history of increased distrustful interactions between us and china , but also the potentially destabilizing impact of china on the region ’s sudden economic rise ? for , though america has attracted strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high water mark for diversity – americans have often shown a xenophobic mistrust of immigrants , which has attracted too close to power . on the chinese side , anxiety about the proliferation of national loyalties and the “ fifth pillars ” has been potent .
a five-year of falling gdp has depressed fiscal receipts and increased transfer payments . five years of falling gdp have depressed fiscal receipts and increased transfer payments . this also implies that if greece were to escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp . greece ’s economic weakness raises its current level of the current deficit . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays have been driving up the global deficit by nearly 5 % of greek gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china may together reshape the world order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a vast change from past hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i was the first to visit india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining equal status with china . in 1998 , when india was testing its nuclear weapons , the then-secretary of defense referred to china , and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee spoke about china as india ’s number one foe . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts referring to the need to learn from china .
while one might debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of another crisis , his ordering that banks raise their capital is entirely justified , especially in a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost . because hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would not have worked easily with him . the heads of europe ’s banking authority , andrea a , has issued new , non-bank-friendly regulations . so , too , have he gotten the stick , rather than the carrot ? fortunately , we get the stick , which is good an independent test .
second , and in part because of the implication , virtually all eurozone governments are trading at a discount relative to german bunds . third , financial-market players , and , increasingly , real businesses , are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not an end in the euro itself . it is still hard to think that the unthinkable , let alone the best way to work out the details of it , but any rational player now needs to consider the possibility . while some must price risk more precisely with one another , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt ratio almost 20 percentage points lower than that of germany , deserves to be judged as a larger implicit default risk . now , however , even the mighty bund have begun to suffer from heightened market anxieties .
indeed , by coincidence on sunday that a young soccer fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , was meeting michael mcfaul of us president barack obama of the national security council . one quote from surkov is particularly telling : “ make ready for an election , train your brains and muscle . ” those arabs were put to use outside the kremlin walls that they drew on them in some day . indeed , you could always count on a us backing . that meeting took place as part of a rally , led by surkov , of russia ’s youth-movement activists .
today , that sentiment is shockingly relevant to the global economy today – only to become green that is the problem . but , just as important as high-level deals deliver , they will amount to little unless backed by meaningful investment in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if a world trading organization sticks as usual , global temperatures could rise over 4 ° c , far beyond the 2 ° c rise perceived as “ safe ” by 2030 . that prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge the policy , economic , and financial leaders in january to step up their efforts to reach a new global climate-change agreement by 2015 . hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit once lamented that “ it ’s not easy bein ’ green . ”
the organization and the distribution of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings all reflect a global equilibrium that vanished long ago . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect the realities that had long ceased to exist . after wwii germany and japan were defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china was engulfed in a civil war that would draw mao ’s communists in power . much of the so-called third world was either more recently independent or permanent colonies ; all of it was very poor . the search for a new steering director of the imf provides a keen reminder of just how unjust today ’s international institutions are .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made last-minute appeals to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree on a cap on the people ’s move to the uk . merkel rejected it , with the brexit referendum passing by a narrow margin . but when the immigration level exceeds a country ’s capacity to absorb its newcomers , there can be substantial economic and social costs , at least in the short run . the irony now is that merkel is facing the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in the us in 2016 . with immigration tends to be good for an economy over the long run , particularly as the ratio of pensioners to workers rises .
the sullen debt-idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer and reported in a 2010 report by the center for global development ( cgd ) proposed that economic sanctions involve a mechanism aimed at preventing the accumulation of odious obligations . a mechanism would take the form of the declaration that debt issued by a specific government would have been deemed odious . such a declaration reduces the flows of finance to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments would renounce their reelection without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts will fail to enforce debt contracts ) . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just done . the cgd report proposes that a regime should consider odious , as long as it abuses human rights , employs military coercion , formulates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates public funds .
that cleared the path for the return of bhutto , who remained prime minister until 1996 , when he was dismissed yet again this time , by her own party of pakistan . in 1997 , sharif was reversing the economic reversal once more . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , with a new election brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who inaugurated an earlier december for the presidency . ignoring constitutional requirements , zardari did not transfer executive authority to his prime minister ; instead , he expected the two prime ministers that had served under him to follow his bidding . but his military-dominated confrontation intensified over the years , following another coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf .
over the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate dropped more than 50 % , to more than two children per woman , while per capita incomes grew at an impressive annual rate of 3 % . the rich oecd countries ’ shift from a subsistence economy to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift – occurring during the 19 th century in western europe and throughout the twentieth century in east asia – in which birth rates fell dramatically during the past decade . the past two decades have witnessed similarly steep fertility declines in poorer countries , which are now showing solid evidence of economic progress . in egypt , for example , fertility rates declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per female during the previous 15 years . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew at an annual rate of 2.6 % .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to establish a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now meeting with an american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . the two countries are also on a similar path militarily . it has built and launched its first aircraft carrier , and has plans to launch even more . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defensive systems . though china still has a great deal of catch-up to the us , its cumulative defense expenditure is already second only to that of the us .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous levels of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable because no other external force for the order was there . indeed , america ’s partial withdrawal implies that the end of the enforced stability of the old middle east would not spare the sykes-picot borders . developments in both syria and iraq have already hinted just as far , with a future in both lebanon and jordan becoming increasingly precarious . one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries currently play out there . the resulting vacuum has been filled by different currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession experiments by national or religious minorities , and restive regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) .
in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . that means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption objectives – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with far slower gdp growth than in the past . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can draw on the same labor-absorption targets that required 10 % gdp growth under china ’s previous pattern . so , why are services so vital to china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than a country ’s traditional sectors of growth .
but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : a “ grexit ” ( greece is leaving the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk leaves the eu ) , and the spanish election result that is reminiscent of greece ’s . should such a perfect storm occur , the eu ’s very existence would be in doubt , because other member countries would consider or start planning their own post-eu futures . indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces in the eu ’s member states would have their liking , with increasing success , forcing their respective countries to withdraw from the eu on a central issue in domestic political discourse and electoral campaigns . now the united kingdom appears certain to hold , with the may 2016 brexit referendum , and the far-left party determined , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic reform , could win spain in a general election next autumn . certainly , events could change positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , with spain deciding the status quo or somewhat moderate vision of change than greece ’s vaunted government embraced .
and yet , during this gathering storm , it was hard to identify any real accomplishment by the world ’s leaders . aid money to the world ’s poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised growth . africa ’s leading economies are entering a recession , and the world ’s leading economies are entering a period of recession . oil prices are at historic highs , while oil prices are at historic lows . climate change negotiations are running around in circles , and they are being fought .
deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone for politics , with frustration and insecurity on the future overshadowing hopes . instead , they paved the way for his defeat at every turn . two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that a fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur economic revival . in a couple of short years , the pro-market reforms and economic opening appeared to be out of step with the rest of the world . frustration is even ingrained in a region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile .
little wonder , then , that a sort of survivalist became an updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960 ’s . that drive toward off-the-grid , personal-you--you-go , bike-there-on-your-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy is unavoidable : americans were pumped out of hope that more consumption would make them happier and had , instead , be left with a pile of debt . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america ” ; but in america now , that is the morning after . americans lost faith in those who , in the boom times , had purred , “ trust us ” was n’t . they were asked to admire the top-down of the income pyramid only in search of a pyramid scheme .
chinese leaders ’ stated desire to resolve territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving a position powerful enough to get on the way without having to fire a shot . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of initiating an adversary war while seeking to lay the foundation – a brick – of the hegemonic middle kingdom . indeed , it has repeatedly shown a knack for disaggregating its strategy into multiple domains , and then pursuing each element separately in such behavior as to allow disparate pieces to fall into place with minimal resistance . this shrewdness not only keeps its opponents on balance ; it also undercuts america ’s relevance to its own security assurances to us allies and the value of the building of countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . to be sure , it caution china to avoid any dramatic action that might become a casus belli on its own .
los angeles took decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , had transformed rapidly when viewed on the sdgs . now , these cities learn from just another , building on good ideas and jeting poorer ones . fundamentally , this is the right approach to managing systemic risk and turning into complex , interconnected systems , and for managing common resources successfully , though it has so far dent the inexorable rise in global greenhouse-gas emissions . in the coming decades , we may see a global system for interconnected , sustainable cities emerge . if successful , everyone will want to join the club of the club .
new york – a few years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met chinese president xi jinping in beijing with the big-hall of peoples . when addressing us policy , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” so named for a greek “ historian ” who chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens made war between the two inevitable . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , trump might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . in his 2017 book destined war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on the remaining four .
things are finally moving in the right direction , and let ’s not , please , do anything that hopeful motion . after all , what accounts for a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does the chinese communist party really have killed millions upon millions of people , desecrated the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? after all , we need look ahead rather than back , they say . chinese intellectuals tend to avoid the question , shrugging it out as irrelevant and anyway too inconvenient to contemplate .
london – what have the recently leaked panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining corporation operating in guatemala ? they are all instances where powerful individuals and organizations tried to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind past positions . and they are every instance in which the effort did not work . the global uproar triggered by the panama papers – 11.5 million files that were received , apparently by computer hackers , from a world ’s fourth-largest offshore law enforcement firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time to come . files ’ release revealed the extremes and occasionally costly , lengths to which individuals go to hide their assets and evade taxation .
its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions agitating for pushing wages up to european levels , despite lamenting productivity . but that answer is all too simple , given that such signs of dysfunction do not limit greece . the longer-term consequences will not be savory . some will say that the lethal mistake was to allow greece to adopt the euro at the first point . that the country was ill-prepared should have been obvious .
that policy was destined to produce a financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and larger debts . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears a turning point in nowadays . prime minister david cameron and chancellor george osborne are blamed for the eurozone crisis ; in fact , their own version of economic illiteracy is to blame . depressions , recessions , contractions – to call them what you will – then because private-sector spends less than it once did . despite austerity , forecasts for this year ’s uk structural deficit have swung from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cutbacks each year .
paris – last month , the concentration of carbon-dioxide emissions in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if current trends that fits the worst-case scenario established by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) continue to shift , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm toward the end of this century , with devastating consequences . even on the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentration will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , the predicted global average temperature rise of 2.4-6.4 ° c due to such high ambient co2 concentrations is predicted to trigger worst-case outcomes foreseen in the ipcc scenarios , including the loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid imposing such risks and uncertainties on future generations , global carbon emissions that stand at 8.5 gigatons annually must be halved by 2050 .
because fish and other ocean wildlife wo n’t stay within national boundaries , there is a growing need for international cooperation on the long-term health of the world ’s oceans , as well as for the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs . the european commission has just presented a proposal to reform the joint fisheries policy , designed to help rebuild european fisheries . america has turned a corner in re-engineering its fisheries and ensuring that they are sustainable . good science is the cornerstone of the two policies , and we know where our interests lie . but it is not enough to get our respective houses in order .
today ’s transformational health-care advances owe much to new genomics information , the availability of big data to influence decision-making in real-time , more focused and individualized therapies , and smarter , outmoded delivery systems . but they are just a start , to be a good start . further breakthroughs enabled by the convergence of science and technology are possible , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . technologies that connect patients with their own health care and enable increasingly seamless adherence to medicine regimes have the potential to improve disease management , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs . in the process , partnerships between health-care and tech firms will become increasingly important .
moreover , establishing controls on one type of inflow simply leads to its being disguised in other forms . capital controls carry real costs , even if they do not progressive inflows . they generate layer protection from competition for those who are better connected , either politically or economically , or have the sheer heft to hit back . even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have enabled it to determine the path around controls over the past decade . when incentives for money to flow across borders become strong , one finds some ways , abetted by the proliferation of firms with operations in multi-market sectors and an expanding international commerce that serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls .
in october , the international monetary fund unveiled its global outlook to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer recession next year . such shifts may occur only slowly , but they may fundamentally alter investors ’ economic calculus . and , while major central banks do plan or have already begun , tightening monetary policy , keeping interest rates low for now . nowadays , ’s markets are easy to explain in terms of fundamental factors : earnings are growing ; inflation has been kept at bay ; and the global economy appears to be experiencing a broad , synchronized expansion . political crises , though sensational they might be , will not likely alter investors ’ economic calculus .
more than once he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by a “ erroneous ” belief that if he did not reduce the deficit , he might forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . just a week before the uk voted this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , “ remained wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” might “ decide that they should stay in bed . ” instead , the tories won a outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . the skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s assertion that britain was “ doing worse that than it had done during the great depression . ” what might have possibly gone wrong – or rather wrong ?
the two men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s security and is worth recapitulting their respective arguments . gold had argued that a return to the pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without “ defensible frontiers . ” he was adamant that israel might guard against threats from the east only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and control the jordan river , which runs along the frontier separating jordan from israel and the west bank . dagan countered that the military ’s role is to defend israel ’s borders without regard for those borders . to my right sat dagan , who had just completed eight years as the head of mossad ; to my left-of-center gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador .
if a rip van winkle economist were to awaken today , after a decades-long slumber and sees only those numbers , either he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and stand along lines outside of soup kitchens . such a view , however , is not ideological in the past . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his famous first step on the surface 50 years ago . rather , global interest rates scraping the floor , because gdp growth outstrips the rate outside america is so sluggish . the idea that an american wins in a global slump might sound like a sardonic cabled by some unreconstructed marxist living in a dingy corner of faculty parlance .
from the 1990-2002 period , new zealand ’s private forest plantations increased more than 1.4 million hectares , on average . though not planted for the paris climate agreement , these trees soak up carbon dioxide emissions . but growing forests also cut new zealand ’s entire emissions by the comparison year before the 1990 ’s . for safety ’s sake , the country has also purchased a number of foreign offsets , including the highly talkative ones from russia and ukraine . new zealand has successfully negotiated to include this particular emission offset within its global figures , neatly offsetting the actual increase .
berlin – europe , at long last , seems to have veered through the past on its multi-year economic crisis , but remain unsettled . there is much evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . for any cause of optimism , there always seems to be a new cause for concern . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters chose nostalgia for a nineteenth-century past over whatever promise the twenty-first century might hold . accordingly , they chose to trump off a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ”
new york : the basic outlines of barack obama ’s approach to foreign policy became starkly apparent in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk to other governments , even if it disagrees profoundly with its figure . and it has shifted the focus of american foreign policy from what countries are doing within their borders to the way it acts beyond them . it prefers act with different countries to go it alone . all of this differentiates obama from his imminent predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration has branded the country as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; he has often rejected cooperation with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and has sought to transform other countries rather than influence their actions .
in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to cut emissions are far from equitable and effective ; major improvements would have included the establishment of the central climate bank to register and supervise the pass-through to emissions credits . such a bank would also ensure that emission trading does not run counter to the target of remaining within the entire global budgeting range , for example through the full sale of individual developing countries ’ unused emission credits at the start of the treaty period . all of this is yet utopian for the present . so far , the wealth of nations has been based on the import of coal , gas , or petroleum products . but , if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries that are not so much down the path of de-carbonization ( like much of africa ) , or that leave it up to time ( like india and pakistan ) – able to become wealthy by helping societies that must de-carbonize rapidly .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton has blamed her loss to donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on the public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s african foreign commissioner , has had an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede ground to the european union as special economic zones , on what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not merely unethical ; they would n’t end the refugee crisis . in many countries , policymakers and the media have been portraying refugees as a security threat , cultural cohesion , or public resources . humanitarian aid by itself wo n’t work , either except as a stopgap measure .
since 1988 , iran has had a government-funded , under-regulated system for purchasing kidneys . a charitable union of patients arranges a transaction , for a set price , and no one except the seller ’s gain . a 2006 bbc television program showed many potential donors turned away , owing to the failure to meet the strict age criteria and the rest who were required to visit the psychologist . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eliminated an waiting list for kidneys in that country without laying ethical challenges . a more systematic study of the iranian system remains necessary .
with the advent of the cold war , then-us president harry s. truman ’s administration , and america ’s congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . concern then was discrimination : european countries worried that they would find it easier to import from one another but , lacking dollars , still refuse to import from america . moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate , and undermine us functions in the newly-created international monetary fund . to that end , they authorized epu ’s use of $ 350 million of marshall plan funds . at this point , however , both narratives were diverging .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states have shown , among other things , that public distrust of global integration has been on the rise . that mistrust could derail new trade deals currently at work and prevent the future that were launched . that mistrust could not be underestimated ; the dangers implied by this scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken far too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity for decades to come . as a former trade minister for costa rica , i know how difficult it is for countries , developed and developing alike , to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to everyone of their own .
that backing appeared to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuelan petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in hopes of building regional anti-americanism . but the recent worldwide spike in commodity prices meant that chile ’s traditional regional powerhouses , brazil , and mexico , experienced economic booms of their own . the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears to be set on hold there . chávez is the loser , not only because he garnered moral support from the farc ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” “ nonterrorist ” and publicly labeled uribe a american stooge ) , but also because he believes it gave farc covert military backing . there have been substantial grounds for believing that latin america is headed through one of its periodic barrage of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez .
for america today , the real question is whether a short , sharp downturn will occur or even prolonged , but by shallower , a slowdown . for america today , the real question is whether a short , sharp downturn will occur or even more prolonged , shallower , a slowdown . for america , the chances of a succeeding are slim . even as the american federal reserve continues to keep interest rates down , us lenders will not rush to throw even more bad mortgages . the bush administration hopes , somehow designed to forestall a wave of foreclosures thereby outpacing the economy ’s problems on its next president , just as it does with the global quagmire in iraq .
but , in the long run , centralization carries its own costs , too . as it stands , labor mobility within the eu is imperfect . but , with language training and implementation of something like the lisbon strategy for growth and job creation ( which seeks to create a innovative , “ learning economy , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could boost development . given the risk inherent in betting on policy convergence , labor mobility , which enables highly valuable human capital – particularly among well-educated young people – to leave lagging regions for those offering more and better job opportunities , could prove to be a critical tool for adjustment . but more fluid labor mobility is not a panacea , either .
“ it is not america , you must work here ” – a popular joke . a number of new russians , working like machinery 16 hours per day , to seven days a week , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found in asia ’s tiger economies . fixated on europe , they forget that they are living in moscow or irkutk rather than paris or budapest . culturally we are predominantly european ; but 8 % of our population is moslem , and we have inherited a lot from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a shared history . nowadays , most russian elites feel themselves not only europe but , i suspect , too european .
the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to curtail work in affected areas . far from moving to halt this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the un refugee agency ( unfpa ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to curtail work in the affected areas . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who had previously championed the international organization and the nobel peace prize – for her role in the fight for democracy in myanmar . far from moving to halt this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it .
in march , the united kingdom will likely invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty , triggering the formal withdrawal process from the eu . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that safeguards the well-being of the future eu-uk relationship . that will not be easy , with eu negotiators already setting the timeline for a mere 18 months . though eu-turkey relations are currently not out of their best , a dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their shared interests , which are built not just on economic interdependence , but also on the refugee crisis and the collective fight against terrorism . european politics will be consumed in next year ’s brexit negotiations .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model for “ diversity and tolerance , ” ” ” malaysian authorities deny non-muslims the right to exploit a word “ allah ” in their own faiths , a resolution condemned throughout the muslim world for their negative portrayal of islam . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s administration has “ “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . according to america ’s own human-rights report , restrictions on religious freedoms have included demolishing hindu temples , bombings of christian churches , and a ban on the practices of shia islam , to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . in addition , najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that might imply severe limitations on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their own faith . in fact , international measures of press freedom and corruption expose persistent deficits just as they do .
indeed , the recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report stated in uncharacteristically strong terms that sea levels are “ virtually certain ” to continue to rise in the coming centuries or millennia . but the recent revelations about antarctica is different . there are not a number of human activities whose impact can reasonably be predicted by decades , centuries , or even twelfth of millennia in advance . moreover , the greater our emissions , the greater the sea level will continue to rise . the fallout from nuclear wasting is one ; humans are capable of contributing to global warming via greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of the lives of its lives lost , economies battered , and relationships fractured by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram had kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed while sleeping at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks garner global attention , most people fail to realize that , over the last five years , as many as 33,000 people die in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and groups espousing it threatens to reverse africa ’s development gains not just in the near term , but also for many decades . african countries have been especially vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and failed territory where extremist groups might germany .
moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model as a result of prolonged advanced-country demand failures . the huge rmb4 trillion ( cn ¥ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises ( soes ) through channeled banking lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of a global recession . but the price has been a growing serious misallocation of capital , resulting in growing bad loans ’ portfolios , while excess chinese household savings has bloated real-estate bubbles . in fact , the first problem is china ’s economy , which is so dynamic on the surface , but so rickety under-consumption has . the analyst chi lo has lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside micro failure .
but , in the american view , this is vastly different from an organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . for these reasons , the us views the bilateral strategic strategic-trust deficit as a growing problem . on human rights , america argues that it is indeed important for fundamental differences between the two countries ’ own political traditions and their current systems . furthermore , america insists that it does not contain china ( as it did the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , it has been facilitated by china ’s economic rise , in the manner of america ’s access to us markets , just as it did to global markets through american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization . xi , to his credit , has evolved what he describes as a concept for “ a new kind of great power relationship , ” ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others conclude was the near-inevitability of prolonged conflict between a rising power ( china ) and the establishment of great power ( america ) .
but this is simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is fairly different from competitive among firms . and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually falls on us employees , rather than on capital . an nonpartisan america congressional budget office and the institute for taxation and economic policy have shown that more than 80 % of the impact of corporate-tax rates falls on us shareholders , rather than on workers . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes are distortionary ” behaviors and hamper wealth creation .
physicians are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to apply life-extending techniques on behalf of patients and families that want and are even willing to pay for them . europeans ’ welfare states therefore face a severe dilemma . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave the country or to comply with us courts . there is little doubt that holland is spending substantial sums of money on caring for its old people . at the same time , there is no routinely private medicine .
the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . unfortunately , it is far from clear that the china-displaced china infrastructure development model can be universally exported . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to renew mumbai ’s airport , for example , as courts forced the government to respect the rights of squatters on its edge . yet some developing countries in asia are working in a very different way . china ’s strong central government overwhelms that of internally displaced persons with new roads , bridges , and dams , with many years running roughshod over environmental concerns and worker rights .
that change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for a very substantial reduction in individual tax rates . but congressional republicans might insist on paying for a tax cut on personal incomes by limiting the deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bills . the tax plan , introduced by paul ryan , the speaker of the us house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than those on charitable donations and the rate of mortgage rate . it is also easy to fall into the thinking trap of using tax cuts as a way of boosting aggregate demand . and , even with revenues to be earned because there could be jobs from airports , companies might shy away from relying on long-mandated pricing deals .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . to be sure , observers often cite the loss of a habitat in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent accusation on everyone : that increases in poaching are endangering species like elephants and rhinos . begun in aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhino ark , ” ” originally conceived to protect highly at-risk black rhino from the ravages of poachers , is supported by the very people they might resist : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas . in kenya , by contrast , an innovative and widespread conservation project is under way .
there is nothing cyclical about the enduring aftershocks of a us balance-sheet recession , which has now been evident for almost five years . indeed , the balance-sheet repair has barely budged for american households . the personal-saving rate has stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from a 1.5 % low in 2005 , but more than half the 7.5 % average recorded during the final three decades of the twentieth century . the convoluted logic behind such a strategy is fairly disturbing , applied not just to america ’s , but to the global economy . moreover , the us debt overhang remains massive .
ecb president mario draghi deserves the top-down marks on rebalancing germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs for accommodation . the european currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , as well as more recent chaotic greek demonetizations elsewhere , show that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . moreover , urging the club to be conceded to the club , they led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern europe , which had later joined the european union . a second early success was that , by virtually every measure of international use , europe had instantly become the world ’s second-global reserve currency . more recent struggles over the “ success ” side of the ledger include the progress of some periphery countries , notably spain , lowering their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs .
new york – europe ’s economy is slipping into severe , and , for all likelihood , protracted recession , largely self-inflicted . if she is ill , the crisis is coming to a head in germany ’s general election year and all previous calculations could backfire , because , despite germans ’ frustrations with europe , greek voters punish severely those who allowed europe to default . whereas germany continues to try to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the eu crisis countries are confronting the real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . hungary , where democratic backsliding appears to be holding back , provides the foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . it ’s only a matter of time – no longer very much a matter of time before economic destabilization gives rise to political instability .
it sets a new standard for the nuclear non-proliferation treaty obligations and verification . the ctbt is needed because of the role that nuclear tests have played in developing and improving their nuclear arsenals . even today , with a variety of ingenious means , we can detect very small types of nuclear tests in distant locations . such tests are also political symbols , which have no place in a world determined to eradicate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . the treaty is also fair — it comprises equal rights and responsibilities to all of its parties .
at the same time , their ability to act has been constrained by their political environments . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hope has rested , reportedly too many , on any one leader . we need leaders with sufficient mastery of detail as far as china ’s last premier zhu rongji , which can not simply tell us how others will get us from the lie to z , but may actually tempt us , from a point of view to b. and , if they do exist at all , they appear to be constrained by dysfunctional political systems . looking around , leaders like the moment appear to be the extinct species .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within the confines of june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within international law . palestine ’s quest for statehood within the confines of june 4 , 1967 , is falling squarely within the realm of international law . today , palestinians are seeking statehood on a mere 22 % of territory that had been part of compulsory palestine , until israel unilaterally established itself on areas far greater than those envisioned by the un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . subsequent security council resolutions and international treaties have upheld this principle . indeed , a palestinian state based on 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a global networked world by interests and shared causes is likely to prove to be more resilient than one crammed into an artificial – and increasingly constraining – tinderboxes . in that sense , economic success on par with china or india may be those nation-states undoing , because middle-class political aspirations render the current arrangements dysfunctional . conversely , we might find ourselves in a world whose eastern half are organized into strong authoritarian state structures , with the west swinging on post-state association models . policymakers ’ reply is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is not time to abandon us states and diplomacy to their destiny . the question for international governance is how to provide an institutional and rules-based framework in a world of competing organizational structures .
indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the widely respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . many hope that such changes will help the ccp to become more efficient , strengthen its market role , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap experienced by many emerging-market countries . nonetheless , party rhetoric reveals little about the extent of these goals . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to disengage from engagement with vested interests . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms .
such flows should be turned off by governments and financial institutions alike . countries can do more to force individuals to leave for both iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list , for example , would help . curtailing the flow of recruits is even more vital . but nothing would have a greater impact than turkey ’s decision to no longer permit itself as a conduit and enforce united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . another component of any strategy must be to counter is its appeal and domestic propaganda .
political technology implies secretly sponsoring fake politicians such as bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s to include and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to forestall a russian version of ukraine ’s ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ foe . ” medvedev himself may be seeking some or all of this noxious noxious , but it is that russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that will hardly be expected to vanish overnight . we also need to understand the mechanics of the politics of russia . in 1996 , enemies were the communists ; by 1999-2000 , the chechens ; by 2003-04 , “ oligarchs . ” it is us now – the supposedly hostile west and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” toward russia .
in a broader context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures is proceeding steadily , if not at a desired pace . the visegrád group , not cefta , the central european initiative , had produced a thriving free-trade system and increased investment flows across countries across the region . thus , our task was not simply to reform the state , but that too -- their family values , their national traditions , and their cultural legacy . through learning every additional form of languages , through cooperation based on shared values , shared interests , as well as historic ties , central europe has demonstrated what a spectacular outcome can deliver . our new-liberated societies must today learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we have learned the new economic and political language .
the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water-catchment areas , as well as national park , are vitally important for kenya . in 1988 , conservationists decided to fund and build a scaled-up fence to protect an area of aberdare national park farms . a fence was designed to avoid intrusion into human population and park degradation . but it also kept protecting the farmers whose crops were regularly destroyed by marauding elephant and other wildlife . local farmers welcomed an initiative that interfered with the meeting ’s decision to expand the ring-fencing into the perimeter .
for the past quarter-century , social inequality has been increasing western unabated over the previous quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union , and with it the threat of expansionist communism . nonetheless , with communism ’s collapse in its eurasian heartland , the west ’s wealthy , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed for the resignation of the welfare state and causing inequality to rise rapidly . this was tolerable as long as the global pie was expanding , but the 2008 global financial crisis came to an end . the specter of a revolution drove western elites to harness the power of the state to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a devout middle class . such protests have two root causes .
so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . drug prohibition effectively imposes a tax on global commerce in illicit drug trafficking , enforced by governments and gathered by those willing to violate laws . in 1998 , the un estimated the total value of the illicit drug trade at an additional $ 400 billion , or 7 % of world gdp . critics say that the figure is just half that – still an impressive sum . colombia today is far worse off than the chicago under al capone .
tatiana insisted on the start of bam building in 1974 , a politically correct date after which “ clean labor ” was used . but the railroad ’s first section , triggered by stalin to offer an east pathway that fled farther from china ’s border – – was built with enforced labor , including from russian inmates and german and japanese prisoners of war dead , herded in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were used , they were not nearly as enthusiastic as official accounts claim . lacking adequate housing and electricity and few re-enlisted , many deserted , before completion of their term . nonetheless , the construction of brezhnev-era bam showed what died the soviet system still managed to achieve .
and , with support from around 26-29 % , it remains popular , despite its poor performance , running the township council of rome . whereas proportional representation compels two-thirds of the lower house seats , one-third will be decided by a first-past-the-post vote in single member constituencies where m5s probably loses , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities . in fact , a party grouping that would benefit most from the current electoral system will be the only viable settlement that has succeeded in forge a winner-take-all pact with the rest of the party : berlusconi-led center right . as he demonstrated with his election victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been form coalitions . the problem for m5s is that , owing to new electoral laws , he would need to win roughly 40 % of the overall vote to secure a parliamentary majority .
soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement price spikes , even though officials made sure that they were just following through on an existing mandate . the upa ’s critics have long argued that , with unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger charges and freight charges for rail services , unable to cover the cost of maintenance to ensure trains and tracks ’s safety , much less enable expansion and improvement of the services sector , reflected the government ’s inability to make tough decisions . but , in a pre-election interim budget , the upa government finally some the bullet , proposes a 14.2 % increase in railway fares , and a 6.5 % rate hike in freight rates . it is true that coalition politics precluded decisive action , with railroad minister backsummarily dismissed by his own party leader , whom the upa was politically unable to confront after attempting to raise fares . per india a code of political conduct had been deferred until after the elections .
whereas the non-muslims would , through an approved bill , get a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims suddenly assume the onus for proving indian governance . that marks a breathtaking departure from more than seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing degree of cultural diversity . many indians , especially the poor , lack documentary evidence of when and where they were born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only in recent decades . under the widely approved bill , muslim immigrants may be denounced as illegal . coupled with a government plan to create an even more problematic national register for citizens , the authorities will prey on any indian muslim unable to prove his or her provenance in india .
compounding the problem , nobody really understands the precise connections among russian and european institutions and markets . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was entirely unexpected . is europe today prepared to cope with a similar failure of an important financial institution ? financial sanctions on russia are neither targeted nor fully credible . had just emerged from the deep recession , financial-market disruptions could easily have caused europe to slide back into recession , particularly given the european economy ’s close links to russia through trade and energy .
more than one-half of middle-income us households spend more annually than they earn . south korea ’s divorce rates have more than doubled ; birth rates have plummeted to the fourth lowest among advanced economies ; and suicide rates are the highest in the oecd . at the same time , signs of social distress are proliferating . south koreans are troubled for two key reasons : south korea is troubled . gdp has almost tripled during the last 20 years ; but , with real wages rising at less than half that rate , growth has become decoupled from ordinary citizens ’ fate .
for historical reasons , europe benefits from the political maturity that has enabled it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which merely reinforced , rather than undermined , an enemy of fanaticism . while the european union lags behind the united states in its approach to its conventional weapons , its anti-terror capacity is probably higher . it is precisely to prevent the development of the collective security fear needed to change the equilibrium between security and liberty . police actions must be merciless , even when that means stronger checks and supervision . this may mean deterring shadow “ tax havens , ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney had won large donations from a premeditated loan industry that make most of its gains from high-interest-rate lending to people with no alternative when they desperately need cash . mulvaney also devoted considerable time in the last two years to weakening the safeguards that the consumer-financial-protection bureau had previously attempted to implement some of the industry ’s worst abuses . ross should have read the mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how another half of the banks did , and reflect on the high transaction costs available to low-income families . or he could simply ask mick mulvaney , the acting white house ’s chief of staff . as the government shutdown dragged on , stock prices for payday lenders soared .
seoul – a vast revolution in military affairs is taking place across east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , an ex-politburo member and former vice president of the central military commission , on corruption charges , and japan of “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to allow the country to provide military aid to its nato allies . despite the rising regional tensions that have inspired such moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors , and the united states , are not fated to lead to direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to fulfill the perceived “ “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including with the chinese , to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways if that outcome is to be avoided . generally speaking , there are three ways in which the us can foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years has had to make addressing a fundamental source of fragility in our banking system , one that we can and must design from a state of existence . in a severe financial crisis , banks find that falling market value of many of their assets is leaving them short of capital . they can not raise much more capital during a crisis ; so , in order to restore capital adequacy , they stop making new loans and call in their non-performing loans ( npls ) , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . to do this , we must advance the condition of our own financial technologies . this problem is rather technical in nature , just as it is its solutions .
he rejected wahhabism – the ideological framework of the jihadists . but he maintained that islam is an indispensable part of the chechen tradition , presenting himself as a leader who fully understood it . thus , he encouraged islamic dress code , building a massive mosque – one of the largest , if not the largest , in europe . yet , seeking a massive subsidy from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , providing it with some security . kadyrov also catered to the chechen majority ’s spiritual aspirations .
the education system needs an overhaul almost from scratch ; with so many women anxious to return to teaching , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s civil society gain a powerful staff lobby . special attention should be given to elementary schools and township libraries outside the cities . village housing must be provided at a massive level . roads , airports , and communications systems must also be revitalized if trade is to be restored . afghanistan presents special difficulties in reconstruction , because it is not a society with a strong political center .
what i have just described is no mere hypothetical of course . in fact , it is a steely depiction of the united states federal reserve and of the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ different approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experiences . banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping the way civil servants conceptualize the issues they confront . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , in which the fed stood by idly as the economy collapsed , is a molding event gazing up into the consciousness of every american central banker .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit-cutting took effect , forecasters predicted a substantial cut in unemployment , or that the rate of economic growth would recover to risk-off rates . by contrast , “ the catastrophic turn toward austerity had destroyed millions of jobs and destroyed a great deal of lives , ” he argued , with the american congress exposing the american people to the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts . as a result , “ full recovery ” still looks a long way off , ” ” ” ” ” he warned . i raise all of this because krugman took a victory lap in his inauguration in his inauguration on “ the obama revival . ” “ and i ’m starting to worry that it may never happen . ”
while many are already in trouble , this is probably not the best time to start a new car company , either . a small operation in finland , it is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes will spring up globally . yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , it could offer a good time to start a business-friendly financial-services hub . borrowing by the open-software movement , räsänen and his colleagues are eager to make the idea and basic designs free , and to encourage lots of companies everywhere to implement it locally . a group ’s initiative , led by räsänen , is “ ecars ” – now ! – worldwide .
comparing these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya look like the origins of his success . but i think there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that nobody has ever devised an accurate way to measure whether and to what extent a government is efficient . if the criterion for efficiency is one of the ability to achieve all of a society ’s goals , we will most likely never find such an act . in fact , the united states , with a government that can barely be described as a weak , bungled war in iraq and the aftermath of hurricane katrina .
these and other funding streams have helped african researchers develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for preventable illnesses like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education . regrettably , many african governments lack the resources to finance programs that might build on those gains . africa ’s leaders have before pooled the resources of science . in 2003 , the african union , along with a new partnership for african development , started implementing a continent-wide strategy to develop and deploy science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and integrating into the global economy . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed .
london – five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers , the world has not yet addressed the fundamental cause of the ensuing financial crisis , excess indebtedness . official projections by the spring of 2009 anticipated neither a sluggish recovery , nor an end to the initial crisis , which had been essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel a knock-on crisis in the eurozone . and , once the immediate crisis played out , the us missed out on how painful its consequences would have been . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to ignore the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was assured so long enough to be low and stable . and that is why the kind of economic recovery that advanced economies have performed far more slowly than anyone expected ( not come at all in some countries ) .
a third phase agreement two will center around a roadmap for uk-eu relations after 2021 . that will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather a policy declaration of where both sides hope to bring it to a halt . for may britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will allow the uk to remain in the eu in all but name . and , for some of those inside the “ leave ” camp , the route to exit is from the cliff edge . the big difference is that the uk will lose its vote on the table .
the islamic world is riven by disputes between the arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia groups , as well as by salafi extremists and theological moderates . likewise , al qaeda ’s agenda is about creating a new islamic caliphate , as it is about waging jihad against the west . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or gay . muslims find it hard to understand how we can believe that our societies are civilized when , say , pornography and drunkenness appear overtly . to the very extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as a matter of individual connections with his or even god ; muslims see it as an organizing social principle .
with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe , it had been forced to withdraw to the frontier that it had widened the westward since peter the great , ultimately to the elbe and thuringia . the answer can be found within the relationship between europe and russia . yanukovych had always been the kremlin ’s ally . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which had vanquished his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and maintain ukraine along the russian camps . so why has the eu told an association agreement without having offered ukraine anything comparable to what russia had offered ?
what is required for high performance ? basically , it is productive change that i call economic dynamism . the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism coincided with weak economic performance , especially low prosperity . for employees to develop , they need to be imbedded in an stimulating workplace ; with new problems to resolve , harder tasks for mastered , added competence to strive . basically , it is an productive change that i call into economic dynamism . the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism correlates with weak economic performance , especially low prosperity .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . second , the standard view of doing business income and taxation of wealth will have to be tailored to companies ’ monopoly power . and , third , laws intended to protect private information should be reevaluated in order to ensure that they are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . new concepts of popular interest are also needed to regulate new channels of public information , such as social networks . first and foremost , it must develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , particularly how the technologies that have improved the lives of so many are enriching those of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” operation in just as many years , this time in the central african republic – the interventionism that seemed discredited after america ’s invasion of iraq – appears to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays requires nothing less than a unilateral process of adjudicating humanitarian or counterterrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous correlation for the ongoing united nations process of deliberations . indeed , decades of unrelenting us intervention have since shifted the terms of debate , with past operations justified by their achievability rather than merit . a military operation might also refer to the un security council , but only after the fact , when a council resolution can no longer significantly influence events on the ground . to understand how this shift occurred is to see why , more often than not , such intervention has failed to attain its objectives .
the simplicity and elegance of micro - and macro models make them useful in explaining both the price mechanism and the equilibrium or imbalances of key aggregate economic variables . but the two models are not impossible to describe or analyze the actual behavior of key market participants . he argues that economists have become a blind eye to catastrophic macro failures , because they mistook a beauty or elegance of theoretical model for the sake of truth . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession ’s patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith – that honors grand and unifying theory in political economics and moral philosophy . the contemporary obsession with reductionist and mechanical models appears to have propelled the profession from theory to ideology , pitting it from touch with the real economy .
new york – the question of how to regulate access to gene sequence data is now blurring into international debates , including at the world health organization and the organization for food and agriculture . perhaps the most prominent forum for such discussions is the united nations convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , the main treaty that regulate access to biodiversity . the next wto meeting ( policeman 13 ) takes place on cancún , mexico , in early december . participants at cop13 must focus on the need to protect the rights of resource-providers . after all , such no-strings-attached databases do not just facilitate sharing ; they allow stealing .
but , for everyone except bush – and those unemployed by a lag in demand – it presents an exceptional opportunity . if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is extremely good news for other , less-developed economies , especially because one powerful effect of the continuous technological revolutions in computers and communication has been to leave much easier to participate in the global division of labor now centered in america . demand growth at a pace seen in any previous decade as completely satisfactory , with bush being blamed ( with some justice ) for the slack in the labor market that resulted . the spectacular boosts of the productivity embedded in america ’s grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating real earnings growth and real wages , if only american policymakers resist the temptation to pursue a politically expedient but economically damaging “ protection ” of us output and employment . like the rest of the world ’s rot-centric economy , america faces hardest work in securing growth , for it needs to create – not just copy and adjust – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations .
rather than focusing on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have done in the past , – and similar companies , such as impossible foods , are working to help reduce overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . this propelling the latest shift in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale . earlier this year , an artificial-meat producer beyond meat celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . to avoid another public backlash , these platforms must compel us to act not just as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and the public . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including tackling climate change and high levels of inequality – this must include using the unprecedented platform leadership power to catalyze global-scale solutions .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s eleventh ministerial conference this month . in fact , the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy to do so . some kind of agreement is typically delivered , but only at the last moment , and language is often vague . this time around , however , the outcome could be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even a token agreement that they may tout with an aggressive campaign of marketing . with the united states having historically steered the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to run , unlike any other .
similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . poland introduced such a law in 1998 . by obscuring the role played by local populations in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance nationalist narratives , which can prove a very handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . there are more extreme cases than that of poland . the pis , for one , imposed substantial electoral support , through part of its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends .
instead , the reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for systemically front banks and prefunding of deposit insurance by a curious levy on banks . this would enable capital buffers to be created in good years , which might then be drawn down during bad years . admittedly , there are difficulties with every proposal to limit the scope of risky ” banking , particularly with regard to the global economy with free capital mobility . as is frequently pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there would be ample scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ” there seems little appetite for proposals to vary tax-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically .
new york – the american patient protection and affordable care act ( obamacare ) , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in expanding insurance coverage to the millions of americans who would n’t otherwise have . and , contrary to critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed up health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assured . that , in turn , will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ continued talks with india over its intellectual property . and here , too , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to the pressure of america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby .
slashing the us state sector gradually and expecting to achieve a transformation through austerity is not the way forward . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have persuasively shown that economies in transition require strong aggregate demand to pull their resources into new industries . likewise , cutting fiscal aid ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and allow resources to reallocate into new industries that can facilitate services and urban employment ; but this would make matters worse – at least initially – ’s demand shortfall . a robust measure of aggregate demand is always crucial to a successful transformation . if the two old and new industries of an economy collapse , capital formation would sputter , investment in upgrading human capital would decline , and structural adjustment would take hold .
london – how radically will digital currencies change our exchange methods , and how we think about money ? with innovations in the digital payment barreling ahead , such questions are now commanding the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant efforts to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process are about to end in failure . the negotiations fail for a number of reasons , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of territories occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from an outside international community , including from america . and that might not even be quite such a bad thing , at least in the short term . if anything , israel has been accelerating settlements construction since the latest round of talks began , while escalating its calls , particularly concerning stationing israeli troops in the jordan valley . while achieving a substantive settlement was always a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to preserve even the façade of a “ peace process ” that was all and no peace .
vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of yukos , and as a lawyer defended by khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , following their arrest in 2003 . vasily aleksanyan was executive yukos vice president and as the lawyer , defended the khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , after their arrest in 2003 . he was subsequently disbarred and was arrested in april 2006 . by that time , aleksanyan became critically ill with aids , for which the treatment was withheld . in december 2008 , a moscow city court approved its release on bail of 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 now ) .
moreover , they need it to happen by the end of the year to avoid further damage from the large tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . specifically , china should remove america ’s provisions to withhold tariffs once the agreement is signed and for unilaterally imposing tariffs if america concludes that china does not honor the agreement . as a first step , china should draft an agreement using the same text text to the earlier 150-page draft , but , with its revisions , to honoring its three “ red line . ” that timeline requires that both parties begin to take on more symbolic , substantive steps immediately . and it should add a commitment , which china frees , in ways that are “ consistent with its own constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ”
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by going on the well-worn path of industrialization . peasant farmers have become factory workers , a process that has underpinned not only an unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also a wholesale social and political revolution . indeed , the labor movement has led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . a progression of manufacturing industries , textiles , steel , automobiles , emerged from the ashes of traditional craft and guild schemes , transforming agrarian societies into cities . over time , the manufacturing sector ceded its place to its services .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
and , of course , that average does not even contain the fukushima disaster . in fact , when compared to other areas of energy supply , nuclear power ranks higher than the rate of oil , coal , and natural-gas systems in terms of perishable fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima disaster . there have been an average of more than 57 accidents since the 1986 disaster . another nuclear-power accident index , this one including costs beyond death and property damage , such as injury or irradiated labor and malfunction , which fell short of shutdowns or leaks , documented 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 . while only a few involved fatalities , those that have collectively killed more people than have died in commercial america ’s airline crashes since 1982 .
russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than washington or new york . unlike some of her predecessors as chancellor , merkel , growing up in east germany , remains wary of russia ’s strategic designs . there is little doubt that russia and china will benefit , at least in the short run , from america ’s leadership abdication . for their part , some people do n’t become too anxious to be too worried about this . that might no longer be so easy as to say that the us no longer sees itself as a reliable protector and fear of china turned into a panic .
for uribe and his opposition allies , the principal objection to the agreement concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . negotiators decided that it would be impossible to enact an unconditional claim of justice . but , when an agreement is well negotiated , the end result produces markedly greater benefits than costs . and that would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including issues affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and the million displaced displaced by more than a half-century of fighting . the deal has also included an historic program of land-reform .
the america , for example , was wrong to invade iraq in 2003 , but it was right to join the fight against isis and save the yazidis of the massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but , evidently , it was wrong to take the plunge of the city into the devastation . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to take the plunge into the city . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds was a very good idea , for it was effective fighters with strong support from their own people ; and it probably would n’t have survived under the isis caliphate . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because us forces opposed assad ’s becoming necessary popular support , and the us is not prepared to help them win that support .
the trouble began at the end of the cold war , when the collapse of a bankrupt system of communist ideology was complacently interpreted as a market triumph . a individual became the ultimate agent of change , an edestal as the kinds of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such an individual ’s identity derives not from class interests or other sociological qualities , but from market logic maximization of self-interest , whether as a group of producer , consumer , or otherwise as voter . as communism was discarded , so was the concept of a nation-state as an agent around which our collective interest and ambition could be organized . indeed , economics has been placed on a pedestal and enshrined in institutions like central banks and competition authorities that were intentionally divorced from politics .
madrid – turkey ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact . indeed , while some grievances regarding transparency have been registered during the recent campaign process , with a staggering 86 % of eligible voters turning out for a rate rarely seen in europe . with their vote , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needed to amend the constitution . moreover , by giving the kurdish peoples ’ democratic party ( hdp ) – which brought together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – more than 10 % of the vote , they allowed the party to enter parliament for the first time , with representation across the country , rather than only in kurd-majority districts . the rest of the world , and particularly the european union , should have taken note .
on the technical side , germany will have to address the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come . on the other hand , germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ” if an app is successful , a refugee has the right to bring along his or her family members just as there is . frequently , arab families send their minors into germany in the not-undue hopes of obtaining some right for other family members to follow suit later . to distribute the burden more equitably , germany attempted to have a european quota system instituted to allocate applicants among eu member countries .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race needs a way to understand that national opinion polls do not provide an accurate picture of how the election could turn out . in almost every us state , a candidate with which 50.1 % of voter turnout wins 100 % of her voter turnout . a candidate who then crosses the threshold of around 270 electoral voters wins the presidency . owing to america ’s electoral college , it is not who wins the majority of the electoral college that matters , but who wins , in which states . every state is awarded a certain number of voter votes in an electoral college , depending on the size of its population .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will start exiting its zero policy rate later this year has fueled growing fears of renewed volatility among emerging-market economies ’ currencies , bond prices , and stock markets . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states and the ensuing likely rise in the value of the dollar might worry that it is playing havoc among emerging markets by governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . but , while the prospect of the fed raising interest rates is likely to generate significant turbulence in emerging countries ’ financial markets , the risks of outright crises and distress tend to be more limited . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past couple of years , they will now face increased real local-currency values of those debts , while rising us rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby raising debt-service costs further . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled in march 2013 that its end of its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy was forthcoming , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging-market countries and their economies .
indeed , under chirac , france appears increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views , and of the universalism of its own model – the very charges so often levelled in opposition to george w. bush ’s america . chirac has compounded his errors over iraq in his approach to a new european commission . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france had been powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding the us trade portfolio . confronted with america ’s unilateralism , he tried to promote realistic multilateral solutions . on the other hand , despite being correct in iraq , chirac became isolated , the isolation that grew because he also failed to make satisfactory relations with president bush .
urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation for all . urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation for all . water-intensive food and energy production , among others , rely heavily on uninterrupted supply . and the expanding global population – set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources further . first , a drastic reduction in water-related services – including delivery and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , energy and environmental facilities – is needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty .
while iran ’s leaders often downplayed the impact of sanctions , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran faced similar economic hardship before its military intervention in the 1980 ’s ; its dependence on oil had fallen substantially against iran ’s own eight-year war against iraq ; and its 1986-2000 global oil prices was extraordinarily low – and handled them relatively well . four factors that made the us oil embargo especially unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports became more agonizing as world oil prices rose . ahmadinejad benefited from a massive oil price spike , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while the npt party , the israelis say , but have also put israel ’s destruction high on its agenda . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status ; it also recognizes that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political environment changes in a radically positive manner . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which has been guilty of a strategy of nuclear temper religious extremism , both perceive themselves as the nuclear-armed states and want the world to accept that status . across-the-board nuclear equality may ultimately serve only to boost iran ’s nuclear claims . india and pakistan , unlike israel – which pursued a strategy of nuclear inefficiency – both view themselves as the nuclear-armed states and want the world to accept that status .
the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise to 2 % against the dollar ) is that nobody can tell when or what will come due next . protectionists in the united states and europe itching to sler-down vast punitive tariffs on chinese goods have been snatched away . they want to keep bathing bathing in press coverage ; but if they push their china-bashing far and accelerate too fast , then protectionists will be perceived as hampered by delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . but no one knows whether china ’s childish step is the start of something much bigger , as china ’s authorities hint one day , and are denying the next . whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest step toward floating its currency , one has to admire its strategic brilliance .
and it is here that obama , especially in the us , will quickly understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his intention will be to appear as a reliable and unsurprising partner . hollande is not likely to be any less amicable for america than was sarkozy , viewed by many as france ’s most ardent president . hollande supported a military intervention in libya in 2011 , joining with condemnation from syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close political rallies recently declared that the un security council should approve military intervention in syria , france “ might envision ” ” ” participating in that effort .
hence the keynesian answer : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policies ( expanded government spending and reduced taxes ) to keep the us economy from going approaching the precipice where deflation becomes possible . deflation – a steady , continuous , drop in prices -- has given firms and consumers a powerful incentive to curtail spending and hoard cash . it has lowered the ability of us companies and banks to service their debt , and might trigger a keynesian bankruptcies chain that defends confidence in the financial system , providing further incentives to hoard . such powerful incentives to hoard rather than spend can keep demand low and falling , and unemployment high and rising , for a far longer period of time than the most laissez-faith-z-faire-oriented politician or the economist had ever dared contemplate . but if this is an issue that was settled more than fifty years ago , it is with us now ?
and of the 50 million children living outside their home countries or have become internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , and face new threats to their lives and well-being . this is not rhetoric ; it is reality . millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are threatened with exploitation , abuse , and worse . the united nations – with support from countries like sweden and working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that covers unicef – mitigates suffering suffering whenever and anywhere can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises are testing that system as never before .
given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to put a bar high at a time , thereby placing pressure on others to ramp up their own donations . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support this process . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un secretary-general ’s climate summit next month should serve as just such a moment , with countries committing to sidestepping their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , so as to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . to that end , a coalition of african nations sponsored by the un economic commission for africa and the new climate-change-related economies is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path .
the rejection of the european union ’s maastricht constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , by all evidence , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than a rejection of europe . advocates of capitalism could be reconstituted after world war ii because it was buttressed by three indispensable pieces of regulation : social security , which served as a token stabilizer , at least in advanced countries ; and keynesian tools to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policy that aims to stimulating general consumption , without which the genius of crony capitalism – mass production – does not work . but the reams of the rich , developed countries around the monetarist policies , promoted by economists like milton friedman , starting around 1970 , broke with all that . in fact , the generational instability in social relations – most fundamentally , but not just in jobs – is slowly becoming intolerable for an increasing segment of the population in many advanced countries , not only in europe . and there can be no stable economic order whatsoever – at least not in a democratic world – if electorates reject its underpinnings .
in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors were advising policymakers on whether to declare target inflation rates because it communicates the central bank ’s intentions ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that would “ reduce uncertainty . announced rates should be substantially positive , they wrote , because if officials tried to inject it close to zero , any mistake might result from deflation , which “ might endanger the financial system and precipitate an economic contraction . at the same time , in an age of internet rumors and now fake news , the world today may be able to look slightly more unmoored from history . that may create a feeling of real risk , and potentially such action may be inevitable . inflation targeting has other effects , too , that seem to favor central bankers ’ minds .
berkeley – with its ambitious launch in made in china 2025 strategy , china has made a clear goal of securing global economic leadership among advanced tech industries . this places it in a direct contest with the united states , leading by those industries , in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both business and military applications . with its investment in such dual-use technologies , china wants more than to compete commercially with america ; it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power . and it has deployed a wide variety of methods , including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of joint ventures with chinese partners , export evasion , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from america and its other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations .
the berlin wall fell , bringing germany ’s reunification , and yugoslavia into disarray . but an america that is relatively less dependent on foreign markets possesses deeper domestic markets and broadly more economically resilient than other eu countries would have done better than most others in a contracting world economy . already , chinese financial markets have suffered , whereas those in the us have held up . the berlin wall fell , bringing german reunification and yugoslavia into disintegration . soon thereafter , slovakia , ’s “ velvet divorce ” ” ” ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia , which – along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu .
a treaty would promote stability in the iranian economy , and contribute to stabilizing europe , our currency . ratification would also give the us a guarantee of access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) – should we ever need it . it would boost confidence in iran and allow the us to increase current flows of inward foreign direct investment . most importantly , the fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting throughout europe . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy as we work on the path out of its bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and the markets back .
after exploring this issue with legislators in a few countries over the previous few months , it became abundantly clear that many lack an overall grasp of the myriad issues that needed to be considered . in the short run , young companies should view ethics not as a marketing gimmick , but as their core concerns . this is a difficult subject to address , and it is hampered by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . all organizations should be investing in ethics officers or some sort of review process involving people who can evaluate all of the implications of a great-sounding idea . in europe , laws protecting personal data are not comprehensive ; much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards .
but , all too often , clichés become established because they are true . bangladeshi officials are closer to shahbag protesters than to hifazat counter-protesters . traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus slander : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . nonetheless , it must navigate the difficult route , because both points of view have significant public support . the young people at shahbag are mainly urban , educated , and the middle class ; hifazat derives their support largely from the rural poor .
even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does n’t work equally good for everyone . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade ; but none has been adopted widely enough to challenge the current order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could change that . the true bombshell was , however , a sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies into current monetary arrangements , not at some later date , but right now . now that the firm has thrown down the gauntlet , governments should use the opportunity to advance a form of digital currencies that serves the global public good .
why has the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi disaster in june not provided a similar response today ? before i became soviet officials in 1985 , relations among cold war superpowers hit rock bottom . both reagan and i were nonetheless capable of creating a reservoir of constructive spirit through continuous outreach and face-to-face interaction . why , then , did the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in june not provide a similar response today ? what appears to lack today is a leader in the state of boldness and vision to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
it offers a moment to explore why they are so enfeebled . across europe is not just british prime minister tony blair , who is accused of “ presidentialism ” nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder , for his part , is faced with just the same charge in the current german federal election campaign . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , is not even the sort one called prime minister . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , is not even the sort one he calls as prime minister .
first , a new set of external disciplines comes in hand-in-hand with a specific , neo-liberal , economic-development model that remains untested and foreclose the development strategies that worked in the past , with others able to work in the future . the tapering of national autonomy in formulating development strategies is a cost in which developing countries are unlikely to receive corresponding rewards . second , it is patently doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reform in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will spur complacency on short-term capital flows , increasing , rather than then reducing systemic risks . as long as capital flows remain large relative to the liquid assets held by national governments and easily reversible , the international economy will be all but hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles .
when all else fails , the coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in the case of ceos , they also lower the value of their companies . for example , cnn covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for ascending the corporate ladder ” ; a phrase with some suggestive rutones , and one that will never be used with human beings at the top for whom , presumably hard labor , talents , ambition , and dedication constitute more than a “ “ “ knack ” to do so . many news stories about female ceos and other high-achieving women are encoded with a collection of reliable clichés : they lucked in their new roles ( and thus do n’t deserve them ) ; inherited them from male relatives or spouses ( and therefore do n’t hold the reins on power ) ; or they wo n’t be there for long . and all of these clichés were reproduced in gm coverage .
few observers expected that china would abruptly transform itself into a full-throated democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . state-owned enterprises remain favored , the books are burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in each domain of chinese life . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade has nonetheless been disappointing to witness . the dynasties come and go , but in 2021 , the cpc marks the centenary of its founding . how long this might last will tell is anyone ’s guess .
even more recently , elections in europe ’s postcommunist countries have put groups into power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to match hamas with any of these political forces at all . yet one must wonder about a victorious movement with quite a handful of elected members in israeli prisons and others who are not likely to obtain permission to enter the country where they were elected , so that a new parliament can not function properly . all of this tells us three things about democracy : first ; elections rarely solve any fundamental problem . first , elections rarely solve fundamental problems ;
but only one such “ patriot ” was given the honor of exercising this act . the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by televised propagandists is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement , and outrage at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who loathe russia can jangle within ordinary russians without the slightest dissonance . this is why lugovoi is being asked for his autograph . presumably , we confront the mystery of russia thought that has shown so unfathomable to others so that unyielding on every analytical scalpel and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length . to be sure , this should not be taken for granted to mean that patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s reach concede on the british accusations .
and , because inequality of opportunity lowers social mobility from one generation to another , it creates persistent inequality traps . only by encouraging the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that single-generation inequalities do not pass on to the next . · removing opportunity barriers , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating all discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize . moreover , given that inequality largely begins over childhood , governments must invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . · such investment will require an extra supply of domestic resources .
spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the beginning of the crisis . greece has slashed its spending by a greater amount , relative to gdp , than any single country in europe since world war ii . other reforms , especially of the political reforms that they have brought , will be hotly contested . some , it should be emphasized , are being done . italy has grasped radically important reforms in areas like pensions .
two bubbles – property and credit , against which american families had borrowed freely – have long since burst . understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have not taken the bait from their monetary and fiscal authorities . but the aftershocks linger : household-debt loads stood at more than 113 % of gdp in 2012 ( from 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and the personal-saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( from 7.9 % to 1999 ) . gains in personal-consumption expenditure have averaged just 0.8 % during the last five years – the most severe and protracted deceleration in consumer demand during the post-world war ii era . instead , they have slashed back on spending .
while his motivation , at least partly , may have been his desire for social justice , perón was , in effect , bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and wealth . with his beautiful and outlandish wife covering a “ black man ” woman – at his side , perón was able to hold a voice to voters in 1946 that , as president , would fundamentally transform poland . perón ’s government nationalized banks and railroads , raised the minimum wage and improved living standards , reduced the national debt ( for a time ) , and animated the economy . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , though the move toward autarky has ultimately undermined growth , causing the country to lose its status among the world ’s richest . more than his word , he became as good as his word – and at no cost – to himself .
eventually , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned the currency peg in 2002 . a cap will likely become even more controversial once brazil recovers , as it will . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic , all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future . it is not hard to envision an next administration whenever it comes at – perceiving the cap as impeding faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound too unconvincing , because the economy ’s case for it is weak at a time of extreme credibility problems .
here is one message from markets worth re-stating even to non-investors : political confidence may be at a low ebb in europe ; firms and consumers may be shell-shocked by the latest recession and bleak about the future ; but judging market behavior by the years ahead are more likely to resemble the stable and prosperous 1950s , and sixties than the crisis-ridden decades from 1973 to 1989 . a strange conventional wisdom developed during the dot-com 1970s and the 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad for share prices . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoking high interest rates , triggering a stock market rout . while the experts spent the past two years propelling this market thesis is in a way that tacitly restored an older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for the gains , and thus good for share . part of this may be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between falling market prices and weak economic growth .
a legislative advisory program is another tool business can use to influence public policy . elsewhere , there were the nigerian confederation of commerce , industry , shipping , and farming ( naccima ) , which uses its agenda over several years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , that task assumed critical significance , owing to the opening country to democracy . * sound economic analysis and background papers readily provide access to technocrats and others to study ;
currencies collapsed and the banking sector collapsed . the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds . the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive gdp growth in 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand ’s case , for example ) . now the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . its medicine has done very little to save the economy .
nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s capacity to get things done abroad is more than an attempt at distraction ; it also sends the message that domestic-policy impasse is not its fault . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right . the obama administration knows that the iron law of american politics by “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” ” – just as it is anyone else ’s . so expect too much foreign-policy news in the months ahead . obama has performed far better in foreign policy than domestic policymaking , which is all the more surprising given the soft hand that he has handled : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its own credibility as an economic model .
europeans will also see dismantling their welfare states and social-security systems ; a cherished “ european model ” of pensions , health care , and unemployment benefits replaced by a despised and widely feared “ american ” model . the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts were discussing for a decade or more is now exploding . but it is just one aspect of europe ’s urgent need to import those from the us and asia . europeans are also feeling the dismantling of their welfare states and social-security systems ; a cherished “ european model ” of pensions , health care , and unemployment benefits are to replace the despised and widely feared “ american ” model . the root cause of all of these developments is european populations shrinkage . this is not to say that europeans crave america ’s rigors ’s less cosseted social conditions , but because it ’s the only way europeans will stay afloat financially .
should a rogue state be allowed to run out of its provocations ? the trouble is : for most cases , it will . and they patrol with glee at how europe , japan , and the americas , rather than acting together , displays of distinct weaknesses . they feel corroborated in their belief that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s past terrorist activity counts less than the lure of a business-as-usual approach . the instruments of coercion that nation-states dispose of brief military interventions are imperfect , and to be remotely efficient , requires a level of international solidarity that is generated only in extraordinary circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what is driving economics ’ economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . european policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness ” , ” ” ” and seem genuinely to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . that largely explains why germany is routinely cited as a strong , “ competitive ” economy . but rapid economic growth , even in its traditionally export-led economy , has been fueled by increases in productivity , not by the capacity to capture a growing share of global markets . whereas imports must of course be financed by exports , the focus on trade competitiveness paints away from europe ’s underlying problem of low productivity growth .
as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-car cells ; the united states has 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in nevada ) ; and europe has just 4 % . and the more important battery cells are to the aggregate value of electric cars , the more powerful the agglomeration effect will occur . nonetheless , europe could still develop battery manufacturing by recycling old electronic cars , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits . this would be a momentous shift , at best . in fact , china currently controls the entire value chain of electric cars , including the carbalt , an essential raw material in battery manufacturing .
at the same time , governments need to reduce bureaucratic red tape so that entrepreneurs can take on even greater risks . governments that make it their central objective of maximizing human well-being end up not just encouraging higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking , particularly their own fiscal thinking , to put people first . but breakthrough technology firms like apple , facebook , and twitter also rely on people with access to well-funded education systems . and while there is a surge in “ tech ” for good ” industries in europe , it will succeed only if it promotes up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public outlays .
the initiative will have to come from the top if the case is to be made within each country for more open markets and for help make it affordable for those facing adjustment . the pro-trade forces can speak out when they do . in the developing world , pro-trade voices could help to turn the debate on opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasizing exemptions . all countries will have to deliver ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden alone . for example , it is untenable in the rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment , effectively blocking agreement to unlock new markets for services and manufactures that account for over 90 % of employment .
iran has already countenanced the removal of maliki in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a broader policy reconsideration is needed to quell the threat , which is why it is . an inter-sectarian dialogue in iran and regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states does not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are mounting that regional overreach could trigger a long list of dangerous consequences . indeed , iran ’s harsher support for iraq ’s shia-led government has been partly intended to preempt competition from regional opponents . but iranian critics of intervention appear to believe that a middle way is already underway .
the impact of the lessons that are being learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , residents of outdisha state turned into cyclone phailin ’s advent . by the time the storm had made landfall , many people had already evacuated . in houston , the authorities had been ready for replacement partly because of the lessons learned from hurricane katrina that devastated new orleans in 2005 . that storm had led to 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 had been killed during the course of harvey .
for catalan separatists , this means they now face what the political scientist hans morgenthau has described as the “ a-b-c paradox ” of islamic nationalism . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have a right to leave catalonia ? and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors prevent such a thing from happening ? given that the status quo is unstable and independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . yet this , too , is unlikely in the near term .
any deal between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both parties to each side , with the concessions that leaders on either side will need to convince their respective like-minded publics to accept . even that futile scenario might be optimistic , because it assumes that talks are located off the ground , an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in its occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not only unjust ; they amount to a violation of the united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( america , then lead by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution demanded “ that israel promptly and totally cease all settlement activity in the occupied palestinian territories , including the east jerusalem “ in-laws ” – activities worth “ flagrant violation under international law . ” trump ’s son-in-law and adviser jared kushner , tasked with brokering the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , seems to grasp this .
the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from growing integration into the global economy . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called one belt , one road ) – which xi has christened “ a ” project – is an existential reflection of china ’s strategic choice to strengthen its commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , seizing advantage of the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” in doing so , however , china is not openly challenged on the very foundations of the liberal order . and they are unprepared to risk the bedrock of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . a notable communiqué from the world ’s leaders participating at the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promoting “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” and women ’s empowerment .
to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu 's democratic deficit rises without a clear definition of fundamental rights . part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is only a compendium of the existing eu treaties , which – for example , those treaties will remain in place , regardless of whether may or may not be part of a new paper - may be decoupled from the rest . the best way forward is to focus on the essentials . a part ii of a stalled document , the eu charter can be put to rest . the question , then , is whether the new leaders , as early as next month , will be successful in a new effort to embrace the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires .
but for europe , there is a more profound reason : the trans-atlantic alliance is needed today than ever before , and it is far stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . in the longer term , this is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law . this is true of the nations of europe themselves . as the world changes and opens up through the frontiers of nation and culture , which values will govern the twenty-first century ? forget , in any case , short-term electoral politics there or here , or so we do not .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . similarly , just a few months ago , two police vice ministries , transportation secretary , and ex-heads of state petroleum corporation were all brought to court cases selling state assets to private companies at casualties . taken together , these cases highlight a high level of state capture , a form of corruption , rife in former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors use insiders to gain control over public institutions and assets .
and merkel herself will seek to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp to prevent it from becoming addicted to it . a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing at all . a minority coalition that comprised the greens would compel the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policies , which would have been unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , to die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . for its part , the fdp would like to participate in such an government , for precisely that reason . it would then be able to contain merkel a red-green affinity .
chinese corporations ’ sky-high rates of debt could fuel financial instability , though several officials have stressed the lack of concern . china is still a low-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one fourfold of that in the united states . one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used their credit cards to purchase about $ 1 trillion of goods they can not obtain domestically ( while noting the irony that some of these european and american branded goods are actually manufactured in china ) . although beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , a lot of poverty remains alive . it is revealing that achieving the five-year plan ’s goal of eliminating extreme poverty by 2020 , which requires reducing the share of the world ’s poor by more than 55 million ; higher poverty rates are defined as just $ 354 a year , or fewer than one dollar a day .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal de-generative dynamics of autocracy , and the historic record of failed one-party regimes , might actually benefit from reading leon trotsky who knew something about revolutions . another explanation is the fear of contemplating an unknowable solution . dictatorships are regarded as indestructible before falling , trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable once they are toppled . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . ccp rule might not last , but the alternative , – – – of state failure and civil chaos , could be far worse than the status quo .
neusoft ’s equipment looks like little personal computers with sensors attached to one another . after moving on to produce automobile audio facilities , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , began hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and numerous scanning machines ( such as those made up by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a new business had been born , and many times had been made public . neusoft ’s equipment looks like little personal computers with sensors . liu realized that neusoft could link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a range of digital sensors .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not only in europe , but throughout all of europe . inside germany , unending debates about german identity have taken place , to what one historian had called “ the continual dispute about what being german might mean . ” yet , on foreign-policy terms , the postwar west germany – and , later , a reunified germany – has been entirely predictable : never against the west ; always for increasingly europeans . now the “ berlin republic ” ” ” is in great credit for its own identity – and , seemingly , offshore in its dealings with the world . to be sure , there are structural reasons for this change .
as he put it , “ we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful risks … . ” startup companies exemplify the potential benefits of risk-taking . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through several decades of robust growth , is well known for having fueled brilliant blunders . likewise , whereas only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups have survived for an average of four or more years , those that do have managed to produce breakthroughs innovations . and the oversight that warped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that a fluid move might efficiently transport heat up in the inland earth – has proved critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not amount to an estimated war . the biggest threat comes from netanyahu ’s victory .
russians resent the economic insecurity delivered by sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated following russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that originally bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . though he was reelected president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since plummeted to just 45 % . in putin ’s view , trump rooted for trump ( though , of course , did not interfere in trump ’s name ) , because they shared a desire to improve bilateral relations . likewise , popular discontent in russia has inflamed authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which entails increases in the retirement age . now , more than ever , putin needs the american people ’s friendship .
in south korea , the imf urged selling by united states banks to american investors , even as koreans managed their own economies impressively for four decades , with higher gdp growth , greater stability , and without the kind of systemic scandals that have marked america ’s financial markets with so frequency . in its rush to have westerners bought into the banks , the imf had forgotten one detail : ensuring that south koreans could recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . in some cases , american firms bought up their banks , held on them until korea recovered , and then resold them , reaping billions in capital gains . whether america ’s investors had greater banking expertise in emerging markets might be debatable ; that they had more expertise in tax avoidance was not . to be sure , wall street ( whose own interests america ’s treasury represent ) gains from capital-market liberalization : they make money as capital flows in , as it flows , and in the restructuring that occurs in the ensuing havoc .
princeton – on january 1 , rafik parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , died . just a year earlier , in a poll at a prominent philosophy web site , parfit voted the most important living anglophone philosopher . parfit was not the household name it had lost . of all the philosophers i had known since i began studying the topic more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest thing to a genius . getting into the philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he had already thought about each response that i could make to his argument ; believed multiple potential replies ; and known objections to each reply as perhaps the best counters for such objections .
equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own political failures and the stigma attachments that are often sexually transmitted . on paper , a hospital appears well staffed and inadequately equipped ; but on my rounds there , i found halls and wards deserted and barren . few therapeutic and diagnostic possibilities have been available ; many of these three therapeutic and diagnostic options have been on the ground . even a rudimentary test like a cat sachs would require transport to another regional hospital . but under-equipped hospital may not be the biggest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis .
but the level of average incomes in the west bank and gaza would remain much lower under the latter scenario than it is if the israeli labor market were gradually reopened for palestinian labor . such simulations also suggested that continued dependence on exporting labor outcomes within the lower growth potential of the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exporting manufactured goods . indeed , what trade policies might boost us exports of goods , rather than labor ? comparing the outcomes of these two simulations indicates that large export flows of palestinian labor to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . this confirms the massive short civilian welfare costs of palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor markets .
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many hoped that the economy ’s decline that it had overseen would soon be reversed . but , a year and a half later , the us economy is showing no signs of recovering , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ? following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
but , in that case , with a son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serving a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , is he not willfully reflecting those sins ? evidently , the chinese had been politically tone-deaf in choosing an architect , whose name had implemented such dark historical connotations . for example , china believes that it had found its own model for developing and modernizing matters , with its rulers regard the games in the same way that the nazis and leonid brezhnev ’s had done so because of “ selling it ” to a global audience . speer ’s name alone did n’t really matter . totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets did in the 1980 ’s , and now the chinese – were seeking to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world ’s supremacy .
the way to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for noble , universal values . macron may proudly named himself a french patriot , because france gave a world liberté , égalité , and fraternité . these are examples of what philosopher jürgen habermas has dubbed constitutional patriotism ( while others have denounced it as civic patriotism ) . on the contrary , this philosophical position has practical implications . in a recent dutch election , liberals might try to respect immigration rights because respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values of which any dutch patriot can take pride .
in april , when the icc was determining whether to proceed with its wartime crimes in afghanistan , including any that may have perpetrated american forces , the trump administration canceled a court-appointed visa . pursuing such a investigation is effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility , and bolster its ability to fulfill its supposed role as a powerful force for international justice . to succeed , the icc would need to overcome robust opposition not just from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , especially us president donald trump . if the icc does to fulfill the role it has created , it can neither bow to such pressure nor allow its deficient performance to continue doing so . instead , its leaders , especially its chief prosecutor , september attorney fatou bensouda , must embrace recent criticism as motivation , showing that they are up to the task .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the heart of two years of global financial debates . the reasons are clear : because the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund has put it , slow-growth advanced countries are maintaining extremely low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-rising emerging-market economies are unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during recessions . add to that a asymmetry fueled enormous capital inflows from the former to the latter path , which is likely to continue . the problem is compounded by the fact that one of a country performing expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector , and issues paramount global currencies . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital will drive up their currencies ’ exchange rates , apart from fueling the current-account and asset bubbles that past experience has taught them , is a confident recipe for future crises .
greenpeace , along with other organizations opposed to using genetically modified ( gmos ) organisms , has campaigned against the introduction of a beta carotene , as a result of a human body into vitamin a. a. as a part of the world health organization reports , that causes blindness in about 250,000-500,000 preschool children every year , about half of them die within a mere 12 months . moore ’s mortality figures seem to be on extremely high track , but without doubting the seriousness of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . the deficiency also increases susceptibility to diseases like measles , still a substantial cause of death among young children , though one that is declining as a result of vaccinations . in some countries , inadequate vitamin a is also a major driver of high rates of maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth .
the implication of this was obvious . so what lessons does history have to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to battle what he described as “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some specific set of assets in financial markets reflected an excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which , in turn , generated excess supply by workers in the labor market . if one were to lighten the excess demand for us financial assets , you , too , cured the excess supply of goods and services ( a record of aggregate demand ) and excess labor supply ( via mass unemployment ) .
it is a gap seen in areas as diverse as health care , education , and combating climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s inherent problems . no single actor – be it government , university research laboratory , ngo , an entrepreneur , or a bunch of funders – may be able to resolve today ’s really big problems on their own . that is why chan zuckerberg initiative was designed to get maximum flexibility , allow finance to drift into non-profits directed toward private investment or used to help influence policy debates . similarly , the bec pledged to boost others ’ work by adopting “ a flexible early approach , to providing seed , angel , and series investment , with expectations that once those investments are de-risked , traditional commercial capital would invest later in ” – ” ” ” ” ” .
the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and arguably better place , where a person ’s own economic destiny does not depend very much on where they happen to have been born . but a more cynical view pervades populist logic , namely that in its overadherence to globalism , the u.s. has sown seeds of its own political and economic devastation . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here ’s someone who thinks that it can be done . the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to create a system in which american dominance diminishes . american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that the rise of globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class .
ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist administration will rebuff any efforts that encroaches on the isolation that it needs to remain in power . one approach would enhance deterrence , by bolstering conventional south korean and us forces and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional power would add little to the competent forces already on the ground , and bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would only make the two sides more anxious ( and offshore america ’s naval nuclear forces already pack an adequate punch to buttress deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the assumption that this can enhance communication , thereby lingering a nuclear threat . yet , in such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to such outsize demands as america ’s withdrawal from the region , and to economic and energy assistance to prop up the regime .
thus , the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , spiked , and , most disastrously , venezuela – took a left-wing form . the story is similar in the us with the main two exceptions of a right-wing resurgence in europe , greece and spain . in both countries , the far right lacked the breeding ground it had elsewhere . in spain , a majority of immigrants until recently originated culturally similar to latin american countries . in greece , the main political fault line emerged from the austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund .
british and american negotiators met in secret with their libyan counterparts , in order to resolve the case for the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other terrorist issues . eight years later , pinned down by an american predatory drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi had met with his demise . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his subsequent nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to the status of pariah . this was coupled with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts .
botswana ’s incredible annual per capita income growth of around 13 % over the past decade was accompanied by a drop from almost 6 children per female education to less than four . the math is simple : larger people means that ( on average ) everyone get less . a surging population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also the human capital . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity passes , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in educating every child to ensure that future adults benefit as much as a key determinant of their economic success . so why is rapid population growth being bad for a country ’s standards of living ?
but it does mean an understanding that even a democracy has many rules at its disposal , ideally rules that a majority has chosen but is not chosen directly ; those rules broadly reflect compromises among elected representatives , who could argue and negotiate in a person , reflecting the aggregate preferences of those who elected them . the modernizers need to form a coherent force – and most likely a political party – rather than relying simply on wisdom ( and good behavior ) of a crowd to govern the country . like it or not , they can not do that as a flower brigade of kids ; they need to pick leaders who can speak for and negotiate on them . that may sound a bit like the old system . that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause .
rising incomes ; growing incentives for health-care , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new opportunities for work . given the sector-specific sector/occupational distribution of such opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to seize them . assuming the current gender equality and sectoral patterns holding back , women could access 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to more than 19 % for men . in fact , in many countries women account for more than 70 % of health-care - and social-assistance workers , and that sector could comprise one-quarter of all future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing accounts for an equal proportion of one ’s potential male job gains ) . this miniscule benefit women reflects the robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where women are well represented .
it was new year ’s eve 2003 , during a concert at the newly-opened white house of music in moscow . directly across the aisle from me , putin sat between the one-time dissident cellist and the conductor tuslav rostropovich and his subsequent famous wife , opera diva galina vishnevskaya . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store – thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , former exiles no less . i myself once witnessed , as putin courting the culture , in his name as one . and the icons were apparently flabked by putin ’s adoration ( and closer towards power ) .
in an effort to revive growth in a tough global environment , and to buffer the effects of the asian financial crisis , china ’s government has loosened monetary and fiscal policy to start in november 1997 . but , as a result , gdp growth soon began to stagnate more quickly . by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to decline , producer prices were already depressed for an average of 8 months , and remained negative for an average of 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after 39 months . yet , too little was too late . an obvious lesson is that the government should switch to loosening earlier , as well as more forcefully .
while blanchard focuses on rates on low-risk government bonds , piketty worries about the returns on riskier capital investment . so , too , have we now moved ahead of piketty ’s r > g world to blanchard ’s r < g world ? if so , can their views be reconciled ? after all , the answer is neither and yes . piketty ’s and blanchard ’s views may actually be reconciled , given that they come to mind with different interest rates .
on the contrary , compared to their likely future losses , european banks have actually raised relatively little capital recently , and much of this has been regulatory accounting , rather than actually loss-absorbing shareholder equity . perhaps the risk that some greek debt restructuring would produce a financial meltdown has always been minimal , and quiescent markets have been about to expect . but that is not because banks have been prepared to put themselves by raising more capital . but , in that case , why everyone seems to have the fuss ? banks have not failed , and even have not .
in the scandinavian countries as opposed to , say , germany and switzerland , a us government , rather than an individual firm , is responsible for the most social benefit . moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that the short-run unemployment rate does not force workers to sell their homes , or even automobiles . this way , the economically irrational lock-in effects whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs are avoided . the system protects not only the unemployed who can continue paying their mortgages and interest , but also indirectly the banks – because their loans to households are repaid even in times of recession . and , rather than solving every type of economically induced private problem , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs .
but , having suffered currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate huge reserves in order to protect themselves in the face of deeper global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has faded . while financial globalization has not bolstered growth , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has been steadily waning since the crisis . public-sector investment and fundamental social protection can help turn this around , by creating millions of jobs .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . one aspect of this supposedly moral and cultural decline worries a family : “ to attack a family ’s institution , to regard it with contempt , or to cast doubt on its significance , ” ” ” ” ” ” the pope and the state of the grand imam , is one of the deadliest evils in our era . the paper asserts that a family is the fundamental nucleus of societies and humanity ” and “ ” is essential in bringing children into the world , lifting them , educating them and providing a robust moral formation and domestic security .
addis ababa – with almost 60 % of its population under age 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is widely recognized that young people are being often left behind . they frequently face inadequate economic opportunities , and they may be socially or politically excluded . unless and until youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible to achieve . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
while trade has surged , investment lags , and russia ranks only one-tenth among china ’s export markets . in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic position in the far east , where russia ’s population of six million , and population on the chinese side , ranks up to around 120 million , is generating anxiety in moscow . russia ’s economic decline has intensified its anxiety about its rise . according to feng yun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship for the us ” is the one with america . as the economist recently noted , russia worries about becoming the alliance ’s junior partner , more dependent on china than on russia .
florence – in phaedrus ’s ’s ’s well-known history of wolf and the lamb , wolf could have eaten the lamb with no word , but prefers to fix its “ grounds ” for it . then he argues that last year , the lamb had named it the wrong name ( but the lamb was just six months old ) . wolf ’s “ justifications ” for his malevolent action was a luxury that he allowed himself . first , he scolds the lamb because he muddying his drinking water ( even as wolf was upstream ) . wolf then snarls that , if not a lamb , was his father ; after all , he immediately moves into action .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not weigh on war . arlington , virginia – the election left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , giving the presidency a military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing promising to overthrow a corrupt establishment . i am not talking about america ’s 2016 presidential election , which placed donald trump in power , but rather america ’s 2018 election won by the so-called “ trump of the tropics , ” jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 .
she then quickly proceeded to cede a long celebratory speech on the pride of america ’s soldiers “ fight for freedom ” abroad . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some exceedingly affluent men , including a handful of oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes on the super-rich and abolishing government subsidies to the extreme poor , such as social security and us president barack obama ’s health-care plan . that agenda might seem selfish , however understandable from an oil-billionaire account . it seemed an odd – and to a great deal of many insulting – transition : from king ’s great plea for civil rights to “ palin ” her sentimental clichés about the military . but then something strange happened about the entire event , just as there ’s something curious about the tea party movement itself .
while the degree of their religious commitment varies , they share a strong emotional attachment to religious beliefs , which ensures considerable political leverage for francis . latin america will doubtless be one of francophone francis ’s priorities . the start of his own papacy finds populist governments in a vulnerable situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . all of them have their individual identities and strengths , and yet they will miss out on protecting chávez ’s global clout as well as his or her subsidies . moreover , they are governing the countries where catholics comprise an overwhelming majority .
but obama can not do it alone – and so far , neither the american public nor the american congress seems committed to reconnecting with his own moral compass . the us must lead the world , either by deed and by example . it should be unacceptable , for example , for the us congress to block the release of $ 86 guantánamo bay detainees , which has been cleared by a us national-security committee . not even the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from the department of american surveillance have stirred americans to demand a new approach . responding to the second major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will recapture its own economic momentum , too , seem to be “ no , ” at least in the short run , with most of the experts agreeing that china ’s export – and investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its own potential .
nevertheless , substantive and remarkable progress has been made all over the past couple of years . this has paved the way for the next-generation pharmacies . to fill a prescription for what the renowned pharmacogenomic profiles was known , a customer can obtain swift genotyping to determine the appropriate drug , or predilection for taking serious spillover effects . genotyping can now be accomplished by about 20 minutes , and more over time would get even faster . moreover , someday , we will know – through sequencing an entire genome – of rarer genomic variations that are correlated with treatment responses or spillover effects .
the financial crisis produced a new answer , in which the greatest competitive advantage lies . from banks ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson was the need for a strong national government to incur the potential cost of rescuing it . very large banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable . it is no longer best to be subject to the most favorable regulatory regime , but rather to be where the state has the deepest pockets . the u.s. is large enough to manage behemoths like the bank of america or citigroup .
the number of species that have been known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 are increasing as taxonomists describe a new species from skeletal remains found in caves , for example , where bones survives . still , we have comparable analyses for the fortunes of the caribbean and indian ocean israeli-palestinian settlement following the first human contact period , but large figures of extinctions occurred there , too . the early european exploration has probably continued this fast-moving pace of extinction . linneaus has invented a modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , though naming does not get under way until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat at 1815 . the number of species that were known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 are rising as taxonomists describe a new species from the skeletal remains to be found in caves , for example , where the bones outlive .
syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all are coping with a mix of civilian and proxy wars . the plight of the millions of refugees constitutes not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic boon to the countries of regional and european countries . the iran nuclear pact at best manages one aspect of the iranian forces and only for limited length . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial reach ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to present a terrorist threat for years to come . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial edge ; but it – along with other groups – will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come .
yet the current climate crisis continues to grow , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go . droughts have hit in kenya and somalia ; indeed , afghanistan and south africa have endured major water shortages . these movements have created space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly solar fires have staged livelihoods and wiped out billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia .
the stakes for both africa and the us are high . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a robust partnership with the americas will be vitally important for africa ’s continued growth and development . this is the start of an important dialogue with the us . the decisions that we make now will have consequences for generations to come . we owe it to our offspring – and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs already leading the charge – to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with the concept and the realities of strategic power . such was clearly the case in france under louis xiv , the sun king in the seventeenth century , and such is the case today in china , whose leadership is comfortable with the balance-of-power games of neoclassical europe . on economic terms , india ’s trust has been boosted by how the western world now looks at it with a mixture of self-respect and greed : “ what kind of deal might i strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon be the largest of any country in the world ? ” with its rise to power , india is clearly in a very different category . still , to understand india ’s political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparisons are with america in 1920 .
views about social mobility are not uniform across the political spectrum or across geographic regions . in the us and europe , for example , the people whom i call as “ conservative ” on economic-policy matters believe there are equality of opportunity for all children , and a free-market economy in their home countries is just fine . these people favor government intervention because they believe , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness , and may even generate more inequality . in fact , the opposite holds true for those of us who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” an even more striking pattern is that americans have been overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of a country where real mobility has been low – including georgian states , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
once upon a time , there had been much relatively little department-store chains and other headquarters retailers spread across america and outlets in a few towns . those headquarters had brought incomes into their cities by supplying back-office services to their network of trades . but consolidation into the retail industry , powered in part by walmart and amazon , has dealt a deathblow to many such companies . grocer , a coffee shop , and barber go out of business and everybody leaves the site to a ghost town . disruption can be caused not just by an industrial closure .
the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue gap over the next decade , not to plug that loophole with revenue savings from their health-care reform plan or the $ 1.2 trillion that could have been expected of the bat . the first scenario , then , is unlikely , for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans would object to reckless build-up of public debt . the bat lacks sufficient support even among republican voters , and it would violate the rules of world trade organization . the house republicans now must choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to government debt ) and pursuing far more modest reform .
at the same time , its net export position and current-account balance improves . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add up . but that has not happened in this case , either . if a country saves more but its investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . such resilience will test the long-run rate over the longer run , albeit because of the fiscal and external imbalances unaffected by data revision .
first , when it comes to dealing with climate change , the important thing is to look as if something is being done . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a telling example . countries have entered a grandiose commitment to keep the global temperature increase well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all their promises collectively add up to less than 1 % of what must be required . new analysis shows that a mere 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – really meet their commitments , in most cases because they promise a very small deal . countries that govern that could get away with the data massaging .
that strategy faltered in part because of america ’s intransigence under president george w. bush , and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( to which the americas had never signed ) . as a result , vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become unlivable . instead , the copenhagen accord merely asked countries to make voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by a particular amount . thawing siberian permafrost would free huge volumes of methane . earlier conferences by the unfccc signatories have tried to reach legally binding emission-reduction targets , at least for the industrialized countries that have emitted most of the greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere .
along the same lines during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy and compulsory consultations in the event of a threat to any state-owned security . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine could have been averted . to be sure , political leaders are to blame for filing away these and other “ european ” fantasies ” in the archives . but the blame must also be shared more widely with europe ’s entire political class , its civil-society institutions and its media . while i am an optimist , i must admit that it is extremely difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes to a close .
and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe of america ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland produces electric buses ; and austria leads when it pushes for green buildings . but , as europe ’s leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator . for example , my home country , denmark , which had been asked for leading energy talks at the un summit , has integrated vast quantities of wind power into its electricity grid . when it comes to a solution , europe has been ahead of the curve . sweden , which would run an industrial fishery with india , has created the world a first fossil-fuel-free steel industry .
in the us , prejudice has tended to fall as participation increases . tolerance of fellow human religion has tended to decline as participation rises . one result of the deal is a paradoxical-sounding familiarity with a difference . because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , american people are employed to different species , and so to distinguish those differences that might damage the land from those that wo n’t . it has been in nobody ’s interest to disturb this live-and-live pragmatism for very long .
this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from meeting their full potential . based on our own experiences – in mexico , which has opened itself to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which is a leading aid donor and an important source of private investment in developing countries – we are convinced that many of these challenges may be identify , isolated , and fixed . a entrepreneurial energy already exists : visit the tiniest town in the country ’s poorest day on market day , and sees the private sector through action . if a small firm could expand beyond peasant square , growth could be driven better by their countries than by any assistance agency . that is why when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program administrator mark malloch brown have asked the us to lead a new private-sector commission and development , we have agreed .
there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit . and yet , even if he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to carrying out frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . thus far , he has proven himself highly effective in keeping a bromance alive and a upcoming track summit . moreover , his uncanny -stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a good fix on the president ’s psyche . regardless of when his second summit complies , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense .
in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries for transparency international on corruption perceptions index . all of this created emigration an increasingly appealing option , especially among young people , to raise the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also turned the heat on simmering social unrest that has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which might well have been specifically intended to preempt popular protests ) . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries on transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state fails to ensure basic security : by july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating medalist , denis ten , was murdered in broad daylight in the midst of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to prevent its car mirrors from being stolen .
the job creation challenge for the saudis might seem like an riches problem . some would argue that all the kingdom needs to do is to substitute saudi for foreign workers in existing positions . but whenever the kingdom tried to reduce public-sector hiring , so did unemployment . under the prevailing stimulus system , authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity will , in fact , destroy the jobs occupied by the saudis . but simple substitution wo n’t do the job .
but for the money to have value and generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously . so , too , is the idea that even a single cryptocurrency might have a substitute for fiat money . the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together , rather than violate , the very concept of money ; it is entirely idiotic . the entire point of money is that it allows parties to regulate themselves without having to barter . in the u.s. , the reason not to use euros or yen alongside dollars is obvious : doing something would be senseless and making the economy far less efficient .
cool warfare threatens to undermine these efforts , because it is confronting the americans at the negotiating table that requires china to cement its own status above all that of the us . minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that , in an interconnected world , their efforts to strengthen their own positions become self-defeating as they undermine global stability and uncertainty . that means ensuring that disruptions caused by america ’s short-termism do n’t pose a longer-term systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . the trade war has thrown that lesson into sharp relief . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far smaller and drying up than the cold war was .
to accelerate the shift toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; involve a common and consistent system for monitoring , reporting , and verification ; and providing strong economic incentives on a global scale . studies ahead of the paris conference indicate that international cooperation could allow for the rapid reduction of greenhouse gases . our price-and-storage mechanism is inspired by a “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , where buyers of new cars are taxed , or given a bonus based on a vehicle for co2 emissions . in our system , a country exceeding the worldwide average of per capita emissions would pay an accurate amount on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalents ) above a set threshold . they also highlight the knock-on benefits that take quick action on climate change might have – including the reduction of localized pollution , stronger energy and food security , and faster innovation .
three months ago , i argued that all but the diminutive and unbalanced fringe of economists endorsed the expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant in a downturn and i was right to do so . by purchasing government bonds for cash , the central bank can satisfy demand and push down the money price . thus , expansionary monetary policy via a standard open-market operations carried out by a central bank is the first item on the checklist of what to make of a financial crisis . i was also correct to say that all but the miniscule and misaligned fringe of economists endorsed central-bank central-bank central-bank guarantees for the system ’s stability , in order to prevent the risk of collapsing the payment system from becoming a first-order consideration of the demand for cash to its unnatural level . when there is no excess demand for cash , no amount of capital inflows and stock that underpins and finance the economy ’s productive capital .
the eastward enlargement of nato , and the european union , contend , was an unnecessary provocation . for starters , it bases on the claim that in the era of the collapse of the berlin wall and the disintegration of the soviet union , the west promised that nato enlargement would occur . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the end of the wall ’s demise , has accused the west of not keeping the promises it had made in 1989 , instead taking “ great advantage ” by russia in the 1990 ’s to assert “ monopoly and global domination , ” ” including through nato enlargement . in fact , none other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war containment strategy , has opposed nato enlargement in the 1990s on precisely these grounds . the eastward enlargement of nato and the european union has been an unnecessary provocation .
even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive image of global growth , the imf , undoubtedly still conscious of the panglossian view that it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to a precipitous tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations ” would appear frustratingly stretched in some markets . within this context , “ some ” is the imf code for the united states . how should the us and others regard all of these warnings as evidence of them . america ’s market share of global equity valuations is the highest it has ever been , a remarkable statistic given america ’s declining share of global economic activity . the international monetary fund has been getting on the act as well .
which fed interest rates are the best way for comparisons to be a matter of debate , as are the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to use ten-year government-bond differential , adjusted for inflationary expectations . i have also developed what i have called the adjustment gsdeer , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” ” ” ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america and the eurozone . readjusted the gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as in june 7 , stood at € 1 : $ 1,0590 . considering that the us dollar had traded at about $ 1.1250 against europe on that day , this implied that the us dollar was actually about 6 % weaker than it would have been in the first place . now , of course , 6 % is not an especially important difference ; and that finding may not imply anything at all .
the party entered a full-blown crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated loan payments , hoping to bring their money back down . the kazakh governments , scrambling to support its often very overextended private-sector banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave up and decided to pull the plug . but – and herein lies the point , with its debts now written off , the us banking system is now recapitalized , and has the ability to sustain economic growth . with banks defaulted on their lending , the creditors took a big “ haircuts ” ( a reduction in principal value ) . despite a messy default , this fresh start has generated a spectacular turnabout .
in the drc , for example , even after all that time , we reach just 8 % of all 760,000 children . just $ 230 per year per person on average is accessible for basic needs like water , food , and shelter , and less than $ 10 per child moving toward education . so , this year must offer education an early time , a window of opportunity , opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the un sustainable development goals – including falling maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving the quality of life , and opening our minds to questions about gender parity – and open our minds to questions about issues concerning gender equality . but , most important , it is education of the moment because the world ’s young people demand it . when a girl holds the book up to insurgent guns in pakistan , when adolescent mothers exiled in south sudan in neighboring uganda make education a top priority , and when the lights seen from finland might include child clusters huddled by candlelight to read and studied , we know that education ’s moment arrived .
during the past two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions for war in the middle east . and us secretary of state james baker used it to transcend israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir ’s recalcitrance during the 1991 madrid peace conference . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , change north korea ’s behavior , or stop the syrian civil war on its own . indeed , president jimmy carter used it to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establishing a diplomatic relationship between egypt and israel . if the us can not provide that today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution .
if it does n’t , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves just as they do about the humanitarian values that they use to justify their non-humanitarian interventions . by appeasing terrorists in this fashion , the world ’s most influential states give a green light to terrorists not just in the balkans but throughout the world . kosovo is an territories that is far smaller than afghanistan ; indeed , it is an alternative to attack perhaps by force . so , before an iranian terror campaign seeks other terrorist bases to destroy it , it should eradicate terror in a where the un itself governs . if the world does not exclude western terrorists from policies in kosovo , what hope is that defeating terrorism elsewhere ?
the view that an individual gene could account for a complete biological trait is as old as genetics itself . whether describing the genes for the color of flowers at pea plant or the shape of fruit fly wings , geneticists early in the last century believed that each gene was being governed by one unique characteristic . soon a few of early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , enforced odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiftlessness , ” and “ criminality ” could all be attributed equally to individual genes . as time went by and scientific knowledge accumulated -- a great deal from the low-hanging fly -- the true complexity of the relationship between genes and traits became clear . if the relationship between the fruit fly genes and behavior is so complicated , could the true complexity of the relation between genes and characteristics become clear .
and , after all , you can not have a definitive , utopian community without having at last hand , scientific theory of human behavior alongside some mad scientists or their philosophes to preside over much else . the problem is that , regardless of how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs were formulated , it remains false . for centuries , military strategists have known that there is and could well be , no ultimate science in warfare . to be sure , large-scale capitalism is a struggle between individual people over the control of scarce resources . like boxing and poker , it is soft , restrained , by private form of warfare .
paris – earlier this week , in the wake of days of tension , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that includes a much-anticipated package of reforms and a four-month extension of its financial-aid program . in any negotiation , a key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each of them . from greece ’s perspective , leaving europe would be hugely disruptive , which explains why there is very little support for it in the country . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , the compromise does not preclude the need for deeper negotiations on the new financial-aid program , which is to be introduced by the end of june . in this scenario , the costs of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone , a prospect that has been widely discussed in the context of recent negotiations , with much speculation over the posture of the various players , particularly the greek and german governments .
consider kazakhstan , where five million inhabitants cast ballots in 9/11 for their lower house of parliament . yes , western media judged the election as a failure . but , of course , electoral flaws are not always the whole picture . elections in non-muslim countries to democracy are never quite certain , as are afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as any elections in iraq likely to be . cnn reported it “ neither equitable nor free . ”
much is a matter for providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . satisfying demand for such goods alone undermines growth . but , unlike many equally poor countries , india already possesses a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a host of world-class corporations that could enlist in the effort to provide such public goods . just as india did away with the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments understood the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) contested the 2004 elections on its pro-development platform , encapsulated in a campaign that holds india shining . but , in the same way , a reliable road generates tremendous additional activity , as trade increases between its connected areas and its myriad firms , restaurants and hotels spring along the route .
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure unfit for new challenges , owing both to firm size and specialization in traditional sectors , along with low educational levels and r & d. a couple of reforms were belatedly enacted : timid pension intervention and another increase in labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give proper incentives to restructuring , while making privatization a respite . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , italy could undertook coherent supply-side reforms , even at some initial unpopularity . yet the berlusconi government went next to nothing in addressing these deficiencies , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a fully five - term .
indeed , despite the civil wars , malnutrition , and anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the stealthy rise of a high-technology sector . consider what is happening on a few floors of one high office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . there some 1,500 africans process american health-insurance claims – working around the clock , on three shifts . africans speak english , type at least 50 words a computer minute ; take paper data supplied by american health insurers through electronic form satellite ; put it into new digital forms ; and ships they return to their homes . if not quite representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these high-tech shoots nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive .
still , the westphalian system was destroyed by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both of which were actually european wars of world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans – even victorious europe ’s european allies – effectively lost their national sovereignty . the eu was conceived as an attempt to regain european sovereignty peacefully , by pooling european states ’ national interests . the goal of this effort was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic head butting . the westphalian system was replaced by the cold war bipolar order , whereupon sovereignty rested with both non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its ecb stress tests . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . because many banks hold large volumes of eurozone government debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb evaluates sovereign risk . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright . if it is more forthright about the risk , there is a chance that some periphery countries might have difficulty plugging wind and require assistance from the north .
now , venture capital firms spend $ 3.2 trillion annually on global health research and development , and have committed to doing so . now , venture capital companies spend $ 3.2 trillion annually on global health research and development , and have a total interest rate . they should expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled mental-health-care technologies . at the same time , they could fund contests between socially conscious tech entrepreneurs to spur further innovations in this area . to be sure , such “ initiative ” initiatives cost money .
it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” ” ” ” ” or on governments in the us . consider , for example , the harvard university ’s growth laboratory , which i founded in 2006 , after two highly consequential engagements in el salvador and south africa in 2006 . since then , we have been working on more than three dozen different countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks a bit like a teacher and a research hospital . yet a teaching-hospital model could actually be effective in public policy .
any sensible international trading regime needs to start from the recognition that it is neither practicable nor desirable to curtail policy-space countries so that they have had to design their own particular economic and social models . the american people have had patent laws , but they were protected only by the us public . the fledgling textile mills of new england looked desperate for technology , and did their best to steal british brand designs and smuggle in on skilled british artisan and social models . and the us had as much regard for british industrialists ’ trade secrets as china today has for american intellectual-property rights . as one of america ’s business historian a. p. j. snowden put it , the american people “ were pirates , too . ”
making all of these changes will be difficult , if not impossible , for any of these changes . yes , one may debate another over or a half way , or between the two and a half way or a half way , but these are fundamentally marginal debates . but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new political global power conclave will start to take shape , and this will be the very beginnings of a new international system . the other great change , ie , the end of global ideological divisions – the end of global ideological division – also raises difficult , and probably more complicated , issues . there exists today an underlying , even at the opportunity of a ritualistic view , consensus concerning the notion that good democracy and human rights are the hallmarks of a political organization , with some form of free markets with varying degrees of social responsibility based on private enterprise as the basis of economic activity .
developing bhe would require a new private-sector investment platform structured to provide bespoke returns for its various participants . public donations , presumably backstopped by the multilateral system , would provide projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles . finally , the regulated nature of cash flows would allow for a better pre-defined structure of return than traditional private or public capital can offer . it would offer returns close to those allocated through equity investment , but with some risk offset by its own long-run nature . risk would be mitigated further through the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions .
to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and are even holding small amounts of its currency in their reserve portfolios . but such actions may amount to less marking the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-probability bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . capital inflows , which will undoubtedly increase in the years ahead , are driven largely by investors ’ interest in diversification and high-yield bond yields , rather than the country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , particularly given that china ’s financial markets are relatively under-leveraged and beset by substantial risk . depending on how soon china opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become an important reserve currency in the near future . and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic might not be discounted .
of course , there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda ranging from intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises , such as venezuela , nicaragua , and , arguably , cuba . and the american drug enforcement administration will not look radely at possible backtracking from earlier mexican presidents ’ commitments to continue waging a costly , bloodless , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the initial set of issues while receding to mexico on its traditional and archaic interventionist attitudes toward regional diplomacy . but trump is interested in more security issues than he does on venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega ; so a genuine rupture here may be avoided . the peasants in guerrero cultivate amazpola for the cartels , rather than their own livelihood .
by 2015 , permitted under a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term , amid violent protests . that same year , similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of the congo , following a legislation that would have allowed president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure . the au should show leadership on this front , pursuing interventions that buttress a constitutional democracy , in line with its own agenda 2063 . among other things , the au has resisted military coups in the past . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must confront “ “ “ constitutional coups ” ” ” carried out by presidents , since it establishes itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
fertility rates among immigrants are typically higher than in native europe or in north american families . higher fertility rates in the us , the united kingdom , and france reflect the large numbers of immigrant households in each eu country . but an increasing number of immigrant workers will not necessarily raise birth rates . germany , for example , has a large population of guest workers , but very few settle there with its families ; most leave their children in their own homeland . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance .
to be sure , there were not even the consequences whatsoever for cheney . the news has barely made ripple in the american media . the real culprits on the summit of these companies rarely need to worry . impunity is widespread , indeed , that most corporate crimes go unheeded . the few that are noted typically do end with smack of jails , with a company that means its shareholders testing moderate fines .
greene found that people asked them to make moral judgment about “ personal-” violations , like pushing a foreigner off a footbridge , shown increased activity in regions connected with emotion . moreover , the minority of subjects who considered it right to push the stranger off footbridge had taken longer to reaching that judgment than those who said that doing so would be wrong . that did not sit well with people asked to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations like throwing a switch . why would our judgments and our emotions vary by behavior ? for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate forebears – lived in small groups in which violence could be inflicted only on up-closed and personal routes , by hitting , strangling , or use the stick or stone of a club .
at the same time , investors have every reason to take a wait-and-see attitude . in 1949 , britain found itself the same place , with its merchandise trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling had already been devalued again , as it had more than 18 years , by more than 30 % . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , and then with other partners . political uncertainty is high , and there is no prospect of a general election to resolve it anytime soon .
power in fact , refah led refah to compromise rather than the extremes . relations with israel did indeed improve with more visits by high-level turkish officials than before before – a move orchestrated by miller but accepted refah . turkey went ahead in allowing the “ operation provides comfort ” against iraqis to use turkish bases . it remained an essential nato member . once in power , the erbakan tempered his tone and acts .
new york – back in 1893 , playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of female suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. mrs. ’s occupation of a play whose title character is the proprietor of a few brothels . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of the feminist prostitution business . the play is unsalacious , containing no language about the coarse , but had nonetheless been eight years before it could have been staged . its opening in london in 1902 had staged in a small theater “ club , ” ” ” ” ostensibly restricted to members . its performance in new york city in 1905 had raided .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the verge of an unemployment crisis portending profound economic , political , and social ramifications . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double that of 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s school and universities are not generating enough graduates with the technical skills to succeed tomorrow ’s workplace . each year , some 13 million young people look for jobs in africa , but only around three million find employment opportunities . but a crisis can be averted , and one solution might be as straightforward as turning on the lights . though the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs in ten years through its youth jobs in the african initiative , it is not immediate to tell where those opportunities will emerge .
refusing to mention the two-state solution , trump ’s statements go the other way , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever embrace that design , as has been made clear in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let us be clear : the two-state solution does not imply accommodative the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it means ending this colonial enterprise . let us be clear : a two-state solution does not imply accommodative the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it means ending this colonial enterprise . refusing to mention the two-state solution would trump ’s statements go the other way , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems .
admittedly , he has never embraced israel as a political cause like so many other american jewish politicians have . despite having commented on matters when need is concerned , he has generally not been outspoken on issues concerning the country . nor does israel appear to figure a lot in its own jewish identity that is linked more to the holocaust ’s memory than anything else . in this respect , sanders is no different from that of many other american jews . in any case , it is not as though avoiding talk about israel as a departure from sanders .
nothing has been said about human rights , much less women ’s rights , and the word “ democracy ” ” ” never before came to trump ’s lip service . instead , trump has completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced armaments jobs to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s largest economy . for trump , as for senior us president calvin coolidge , the chief business of the american people is business . that deal appears to have emerged as the foundation of a wonderful new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . king salman embraced trump his war on “ anti-terrorism , ” and he expressed support for an israeli-palestinian peace .
because gold was about $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold did nothing to offset the falling value of the dollar . a japanese investor that held dollar equities or real estate might instead have compensated an exchange-rate loss by buying yen futures . the same is true for the euro-based investor that would not get by holding gold but could offset the decline in the dollar by purchasing euro futures . a tips or their equivalents from other governments provide safe inflation-hedges and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risk . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflation and exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china pegged its under-appreciated currency , the renminbi , to the us dollar , each weakening the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis also signified a weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . now the united states is taking drastic step against china by forming provisions for a trade war . the central banks of south korea , brazil , taiwan , japan , singapore , and many other countries are now buying dollars in order to protect its own currencies against revaluation and , in turn , defend its exports . europe has also become nervous after the euro ’s exchange rate rose to more than $ 1.40 , well beyond its purchasing power parity ( ppp ) rate of $ 1.17 . but is china really going to blame for the eruption of the global currency war ?
but while such sources can provide valuable insights , they fail to meet the standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which to base public conversation . for these reasons , what is needed are researchers , media , and civil-society organizations . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for tracing incomes and wealth . government statistical agencies should publicize income and wealth levels at the top 1 % and 0.1 % , respectively , and 0.001 % , along with efficient taxation paid by such groups . to this end , an especially important milestone will come with some revision , due over the next three years by the un system ’s nationally determined national bank accounts .
moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton might have told them , is fearsomely complicated . eliminating federal subsidies on health-insurance coverage under the affordable care act ( obamacare ” ) would save the government slightly more than $ 100 billion each year , roughly 3 % of all federal spending . but it is increasingly clear that the name changes ( trump-care , anyone ? ) and might be expected to cover the republican plan to cover fewer people ; but much of the substance will remain the same .
mr. and mrs. sarney was eventually absolved of all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy . during cardoso ’s tenure , he privatized telecoms , the national mining services firm , and part of the electric industry . social inequalities heightened , with brazil having endured blackouts and electricity rationing . inflation fell , but joblessness , public debts , and urban violence all rose sharply . from the beginning of the campaign , lula showed strength , especially after an favored candidate , roh sarney , slammed and burned when federal police and prosecutors discovered a cash load through her husband ’s administration .
( for all of these interventions , the figures are likely to be slightly smaller , because no charity effect calculator is destined for such large sums ; and so fails to take into account that costs will rise as once the needs of those of the easiest to reach were met . ) in case , you think that people receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation has shown that they do n’t . when a person chooses to buy “ salvator mundi ” “ rather than restore sight to his nine million lives , what tells them about their values ? ” actually , for a $ 450 million initiative , one could also buy 180 million bed nets , enough to help protect the world ’s 271 million people during a decade of poverty . give directly ’s cash transfers a direct boost to recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets .
mail managers will also manage incoming emails and facebook , linkedin , and other requests as recipient specified by example , and collect credit card disclosure from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts or transit other payment systems as they re-appear ) . the recipient is unlikely to see the complexities of this ; most of it will be handled in the background . to start , you can simply set your price at , say , a $ 1 , alongside a list of people to reach you for free . there will be lots of glitches at an early point , starting with those you who know who have multiple email accounts , olders not at your now white list of freeloaders , and so on . but such challenges will diminish over time ; and , as fewer mail send , a higher proportion will be wanted and answered .
in both trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s ill-acquired philosophy has aligned himself with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former ) . bannon has reinforced the nationalist inclination leading trump to overrule his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers through withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon has intruded on foreign policy by getting himself to the national security council for some time now , until two of trump ’s administration ’s generals – national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly – have got him removed . it was a mistake to view bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea or , just as some did , like the trump white house rasputin . ( bannon was believed to have been behind the recent push to force out mcmaster , mostly by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ” )
in the meantime , demand in much of europe is weak ; ruling out the economic growth required to service its debts and offer hope to the unemployed of an unemployment rate of 25 million . as a result , they mistrust each other too much to collaborate even more . parochial suspicion has been the main impediment to some grand bargain . no country ’s taxpayers have wanted to feel paid for their others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . thus , creditor countries , led by germany , sought to do the minimum necessary to keep the euro alive , while the debtors grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have had to depreciate by about 20 % against the eurozone average and by roughly 35 % vis-à-vis germany to restore external-debt sustainability . the cheap credit ushered in by the european fed an american-style economic bubble in southern europe that had burst when the financial crisis hit . the ecb and the international community , especially the international monetary fund , had tried to contain the crisis by substituting a dearth of private capital with public credit . credit terms worsened abruptly , and what was left was the partly overpriced rump of economies that became excessively dependent on foreign financing . the french economy suffers , in turn , because its customers in southern europe are going into trouble .
the same happens , even when you read the philosophy , says husserl . of course , encyclopedias is never really meant to be read cover . the author opens at an fist page and follows a number of questions for you to see how it reaches its conclusions . if i want to know whether it might be possible that napoleon met kant , i would pick volumes k and n , and discover that napoleon had been born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 , and died in 1804 . it is possible that the two met will .
but our emotions are those algorithms bequeathed by evolution , by which we make most decisions , including policies ; economic cost-benefit analysis that fails to connect with our emotional compass does not shift that needle . at the heart of the topic is our sense of “ “ us . ” what does it mean to be an eu member state , nigeria , afghanistan , somalia , or any other political entity ? at the heart of the matter is our sense of “ us . ” letting those in might produce a better team , but that of our team would not be like .
islam and democracy are frequently supposed to be bitter antagonists . a careful study of some 47 muslim-majority states by the global press nonetheless shows that both islam and democracy could and do co-exist . that conclusion is based on comparing muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not the islam that seems to loggerheads with democracy . if a government had rang from reasonably fair elections and an elected government manages to fill the most important political posts , the country is perceived as “ electorally competitive . ”
understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the appropriate paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects technology ’s potential applications and diffusion . on the other hand , swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger rightly noted that venter ’s achievement “ is a technical advance , not a conceptual one . ” thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health , adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering , ” techniques . ( if anything , those standards are excessively burdensome . ) other scientists have noted that an organism is indeed only “ semi-synthetic , ” ” because a synthetic dna ( comprising only around 1 % of one ’s dry weight ) has been introduced into ordinary or non-synthetic , bacterium .
paris – with depressed demand in advanced countries now impeding growth in the emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of broad-based income convergence has come to a boil . nothing could be further from the truth . as i argued previously at the time , the convergence of emerging countries ’ real average incomes , domestic - with incomes in advanced countries likely to continue to fall into their 2020 levels . that process began in the late 1980 ’s and continued unabated , save perhaps in the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . indeed , the pace of convergence accelerated during and just the same period following the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : aggregate median per capita income growth climbed to more than four percentage points from its 2008-2012 period , from slightly more than two percentage points before .
labour has tried to evade the constitutional debate on the grounds that any move in the direction of federal institutions requires resolving the party 's over-representation in the uk parliament . it is unfair to give ever more power to the scottish parliament while continuing to hand over the labour party , which controls 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , a disproportionate say over what happens in england . as for the conservatives , the party allowed its belief in the union of the constituent parts of the country to foreclose any debate on how this union could be modernized . this belief fit the two main political parties with any one at all . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to the sidelines , it has to change the ways we blockage .
that means reaching out to public figures to appeal on-the-results corrections , lodging complaints with standards bodies , and providing training to media organizations . it also means working with tech companies to find ways to prevent widespread circulation of misinformation , including across international boundaries . and we should work with our schools and other learning platforms to help educate people to identify false or misleading claims . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should n’t simply focus on outtendering false information , but also on identifying sources of robust information and point their readers and followers toward them . this is the approach taken by our organizations ; and , as small-scale and under-resourced as they are , the impact is already becoming apparent .
london – one of today ’s most dispassionate features of international debates is that the threat to mankind posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons , and to those who would build more , or be simply too willing to use , has consigned to the margins of us politics . us president barack obama captured global attention with his prague speech in 2009 , which made a compelling case for a nuclear-weapons-free world . and he did deliver on the major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials for theft or diversion . nonetheless , the nuclear issues continue to struggle with public resonance and political traction . it would take a brave spin to bet on ratification of america ’s comprehensive test ban treaty any time soon .
it seems self-evident that an advanced economy requires adequate , continuous investment in public goods . but the american infrastructure state suggests that many decision-makers are not sharing this view . a 2013 report by the american society of civic engineers gave america the pitiful global grade of the d +for its infrastructure . the report concludes that an additional $ 3.6 trillion in investment of $ 3.6 trillion ( about one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed through 2020 to boost quality of american infrastructure by tackling a “ substantial backlog of overdue maintenance [ and ] pressing need for modernization . ” the report cited numerous state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the “ $ 44.5 billion required to upgrade the drinking-water systems ” in california .
governments may act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to view prohibition as an ultimate or maximum form of regulatory regulation . prohibition actually represents an abdication of regulatory regulation ; it is an abdication of existing standards . whichever is not suppressed is efficient , except in a criminal organization . global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products are in essence akin to other global commodities markets ; but global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces damage associated with drugs .
as it stands , however , we have “ fished down ” our stocks , until few big , older individuals remain . this is for the best of reasons – the fish caught when they are too small will own a tiny yield . moreover , the fish do n’t have any chance of being reproduce , undermining fish stocks altogether . to see this , consider the north sea cod . for example , the eu ’s common fisheries policy has “ been to protect our fish resources by regulating the amount of marine fish taken from sea , by allowing young fish to reproduce , and by guaranteeing that actions are honored . ”
official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and usually 86 % – support it on everything from russia ’s annexation of crimea to its latest term as president . the truth about what people genuinely feel remains impossible to know . with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s embrace of sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles heel . after all , autocrats frequently mismanage their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration .
it was also west european financial regulators and supervisors , who , under “ home rule , ” were meant to fend off these excesses . but it was probably in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package that those practices were most widespread . funding from the parent banks that in the earlier stages of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to eastern europe ’s banking systems now looks more like a liability and a potential source of contagion . it was also west european financial regulators and supervisors , who , under “ home rule , ” were supposed to fend off these excesses . but it was probably in hungary , the first eu country to seek an imf package , that such practices had been most widespread .
add to this the mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , stir up large and growing cohort of unemployed and digitally-connected youth , and the continent provides ideal measures for mayhem . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments have responded to violent extremism primarily by putting “ hard , ” first , ” security . but this strategy has not diminished extremist groups ’ potency or limiting their reach . indeed , there is evidence that an exclusive military response can do more harm than good . what is missing is a deeper look at root , especially underlying development challenges .
the industry worries that the law could be copied in much larger markets , such as india and china . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create new sources of revenue for organized crime . it seems strange , however , to hold that the state might in principle prohibit sales , but it might not permit it to be sold only in packs that carry graphic images of the damage it will causes to human health . moreover , no matter how health-care costs benefit everyone , including america 's , with its public-health programs for the poor and elderly , everybody is paying the costs of efforts to treat cigarette diseases . now the tobacco industry is taking its fight against australia 's legislation to the world trade organization .
during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , investing in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks , suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which had been unprepared , 2,000 lives were lost . the united nations framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states show precisely how the catastrophes they feared were linked to climate change . according to a recent rand study , the united nations mandates disaster loss-reduction researchers in 2003 amounted to about $ 127 million – just 7 % of the amount invested during climate-change research for this year . climate change policies are not the best way to reduce weather-related effects .
new york – the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions target into formal g-20 support for “ strong and effective action to address climate change . ” the g-20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge for the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . other formal outcomes from the g20 meeting were agreements – backed by more political detail than most commentators had expected – to stimulate global growth . specifically , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to integrate more women into the labor force ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and on how to target corruption . ( all of this dismaying australia ’s conservative host government , which was struggling to avoid the issue at all ; the australian public , however delighted , and has been promptly knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval ratings in post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments ) .
many of those who voted for macron might have hoped for a twentieth-century bonaparte . if you wanted to impress upon russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such a magisterial established as versailles is sure to prove effective . but now they might think more of an estimated number of louis xvi , the king who has paid with his life on the faults of his predecessors . but reveling in the country ’s monarchical state of history may be dangerously dangerous . can macron learn from his past mistakes and regain the trust of french voters , who have felt humiliated by him ?
and it did , culminating in one of the more successful periods of global policy coordination throughout history , involving both advanced and emerging-market economies . for many , the global economic summit meeting held in london in april 2009 marks the point at which america ’s economy had become a corner . and that is precisely what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and previously unthinkable policy activism along the lines of america ’s federal reserve . the change was so notable that many policy-making policymakers fell into the trap of projecting a quick rebound , especially in light of america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only to be humbled by what has proven a protracted and complicated recovery process . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts worldwide , urging them to take supportive steps .
the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of the real-estate bubble . housing wealth in the us has fallen by an estimated 34 % since its peak in 2006 and remains declining steadily . the stock market has fallen by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down almost a third . this enormous loss of wealth has created a large and persistent drop in demand for consumption , leading to a spike in unemployment . the fear feeds on itself , with the presumption that stocks will lose value becoming self-fulfilling .
the free and healthy news media are vital to a well-functioning democracy . as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political , and corporate accountability will only decline . that ’s why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report that sets a spotlight on the phenomenon and calls for solutions . if the us is to protect the latter , it must be defended at all cost . the billionaire american casino proprietors sheldon adelson , for example , did not purchase the las vegas review-journal review in 2015 , or to capture the israeli media for money .
until now , merkel had to deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . that will change very rapidly , particularly in view of the option of nato ’s troop increases in afghanistan . from now on , she will effectively require the trait that she has so far failed : leadership and decision-making capabilities . moreover , the victory of both the black and yellow populations defined the alternative : a red , a dark red , and a greens . the old political camps of both left and right are back for now .
instead , we need to integrate our transportation , housing , and land-use management ; stimulate our dependence on public transportation ; and make our cities pleasant and safe to walk ( especially to women and the disabled ) . the fourth challenge is to change how we produce , transportation , and energy use . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investment in renewable resources ( which , one hopes , creates jobs in the process ) . we can also encourage us households to consume less energy , and companies to reduce the amount of energy they waste . fifth , we must reform how we manage our waterresources and our water infrastructure to enable this precious resource could be reused repeatedly and on a city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu surely has reason to celebrate . he has surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office , after his right-wing likud party achieved five-seat benefit in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . but the celebration is likely to be brief . the way netanyahu finagled that outcome , renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine and pledging to resume construction settlements on occupied soil , will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling the palestinians living in their occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
to be sure , my hope is that the new deal will last , at long last , bringing a peace settlement to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any coercive mechanism for enforcement , such as russia ’s automatic eviction from the swift financial transfer system , should it renege on any aspect of a deal . an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female fighter pilot . simply trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . the savchenko spent more than two months on a starvation attack in russia to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than those for whom i was imprisoned .
thanks to a research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized data donation to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some light on this mystery . more populous countries have more commercial travel in both directions , yet the figure is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more of its gdp is just around 70 % more entrepreneurial travel . before anyone starts to slashing travel budgets , let ’s try hard to understand why we need to move people rather than information . why waste precious work time around at aviation , at security checks and wait for our baggage ? in ongoing work with dany bahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some interesting stylized facts .
far too many italians shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and flaws , ill-conceived that he would go off early , having done very little damage . but he did not go away , and it did a lot of harm . in confronting trump , no discount can be made . the price of liberty , americans loved to say , is eternal vigilance . america can not afford to make the same mistake again .
a new law seriously weakens peru ’s capacity to regulate land use , set environmental standards , and rein in corporate misconduct via environmental-impact assessments . and though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is entirely misplaced . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility to “ champion ” climate – an image that some cabinet members have sought to cultivate – lawmakers jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . to be sure , the peruvian government now has a largely serious problem . specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval to a set of “ realistic ” procedures aimed at reducing red tape perceived as providing hampering investment in extractive industries – the very industries on which the economy should become less reliant .
but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society – the relative newness of hard-won freedoms and the intimate understanding of what tyranny could , whether a homegrown dictatorship or colonial administration , means for individual liberty . ( still fewer do they note the roles that women ’s empowerment and feminism have played in development . ) fifa and the government ’s reaction to brazil ’s recent protests underscore the risk what paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of liberty and democracy . when pundits weigh on “ emerging powers ” like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity . the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , who has been imprisoned and tortured under an army regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake .
the eu is now a military-political alliance that sets democratic standards for new members as well as aspirants . no romanian government can even neglect these standards . directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do much . even so , how can nato help this ? nato is no longer merely a military alliance ; it has a political counterpart .
one might have expected us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition ’s role , juan guaidó , as the interim head of state after guaidó , with widespread backing among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . from terms of the number of right-wing political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuelan regime has joined with the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey . a revolutionary delusion has cracked , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mob – that has purchased army loyalty through massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . the mob ’s opponents are being repressed , often brutally .
still , the situation may not be dire , but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial firms remains near 7 % , with total economic growth edged down from its 7.4 % annual rate this past three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . but , so far , lower-funding efforts have had limited impact . indeed , the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further , by , say , cutting the banks ’ reserve requirement ratio , momentum to restructuring it could disappear ; and there is no guarantee that further liquidity flows to the real sector .
drafted with a referendum on un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a move would reframe the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people based on the 1967 borders with mutually agreed border adjustments and a security arrangement . while such an approach would certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian requests , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . instead of closing the door , such a redefinition of statehood bid by the un would provide the palestinian leadership with a much-needed symbolic achievement , including a framework from which to restart negotiations , longstanding palestinian demand . such a vote would also address transnational calls for bilateral diplomacy . it would also indirectly address the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ”
whether this is the best approach is now the topic of much discussion ; but , clearly , some kind of compromise will have to be needed . robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical issues for liberal politicians , particularly adherence to privacy and safety . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this topic , rather than on taxation . in fact , the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in areas like robotics . given that ongoing product change has already spurred this trend , gates and some in europe have suggested that people should be taxed to pay for their human services .
heraclitus warning against bathing in the same sea is being lost twice on us economic ministers who insist on bathing in contaminated waters . “ all of this changes , all the more . ” but in fact , in argentina everything stays the same or getting worse . doing so goes the refrain , made in a famous argentine song for the time . whenever they go bathing , they follow the same road , first raising concerns about what happens if argentina recharges its foreign debt and then inevitably default on its debts under intense pressure from the international monetary fund and the us .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes a more fragmented affair , strong global-governance institutions are critical to addressing the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely have our existing institutions – including , most notably , the united nations – been outsize . while the un still possesses many strengths , it , too , has obvious its structural vulnerabilities . the un is not broken , but it is in difficulty , especially as more countries treat it as a polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere . we ’ve seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid finance crisis .
the decision to launch june 15 as a day of mass protest was ostensibly made at a meeting of activists at the european social forum in florence in rome in december over the white house earlier this year . mass action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , on providing a hand from the global plan . in ninety days , these organizers had reversed more than 5 million protestors worldwide . the internet allowed for the rapid spread of an organizational plan at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . there are three keys to the way of the initiative now :
the new facility for which money is set to be earmarked to house 106 prisoners ( the precise number is precarious ) who has been neither tried nor charged . according to america ’s southern command spokesperson , overseeing gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned , because they believed to be obama ’s pledge to clomo . how better to memorialize this decision than to build a house boom ? a new facility for which money is earmarked will be earmarked to house 106 prisoners ( the accurate figure is precarious ) who have been neither tried nor charged . indeed , they are now cleared to leave , leaving only obama ’s failure to hold his promise , and america ’s congressional failure to legislate transfer activities that keep them there .
it is important to note that such choices are not just china ’s ; the world also has decisions to make . for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that reinforce dispute rulings and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits of increased chinese ( and others ) trade are shared broadly . flows of technology and innovation : increased technology ( as well as knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would support the development of a globally competitive , capital-intensive solution ; reduced flows would undermine global productivity . at the same time , the world can decide how to facilitate more or fewer productivity-enhancing technologies , which are increasingly subject to safety reviews . according to the us simulation , it could be with $ 8-12 trillion , depending on how technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth .
to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in 2007 , technical considerations force exiting the eurozone difficult , expensive , and dangerous . but that is only one side of the ledger . using iceland as our yardstick , the costs to greece not exiting the eurozone are equivalent to 75 % of one year ’s gdp and counting . it ’s hard to believe that if greece had abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even one-quarter of that . whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland , which is not in the eurozone , has essentially recovered .
there is only one way to explain america ’s administration ’s resolve to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite actions in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his entire presidential election campaign to disengage iran from iraq during his first term . in this , obama follows the example of president george w. bush , who abandons the american election agenda , rather than america , not to mention iraqi national interests , dictate us policy in iraq . last march , as rumors circulated that he lost the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be under threat if he lost , observing his responsibility to maintain order . when he did lose , he demanded a recount , not a candidate , but in his capacity as the supreme leader . the fact that maliki , despite his own incumbency , was unable to secure a second term only seven months after the election attests to widespread us opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s political class .
in its emphasis on signaling the significance of his signaling functions , economics enters postmodernist territory . in fact , i do not believe that osborne himself ever tethered importance to the signaling effects of his own pronouncements . people start acting as if the books were counteracted , ignoring it . a signal when it comes to making promises to balance the books creates reality . when one believes a narrative , one acts in ways that make it happen .
this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity , too . in response to its dwindling donor funding , the government of ghanaian brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent funding gaps , but will ultimately help to lead a sustainable , domestic effort to eradicate malaria from the country . for its part , novartis recently announced a plan to invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years , to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains . our focus is now on completing the clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates .
if the sunnis come to believe that the shia and kurds are intent on treating them as second-class citizens , they would have little stake in the success of maliki ’s administration and might , again , start to follow up on their own policy interests by other means , provoking another surge in sectarian violence . to make matters worse , factional conflict would undermine further development of a post-saddam iraq identity . there are good reasons for avoiding lebanon ’s example . alternatively , the country ’s various interest groups might , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , turn over outsiders to negotiate solutions to their problems . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating in the shadow of a large shia-dominated militant organization .
america ’s trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 were a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific remedies . trumponomics seems likely to aggravate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead . that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should be let off the hook on unfair practices . but it does mean scarce hope for resolving the seemingly chronic trade deficit – as well as the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to those imbalances if america did n’t start saving again . alas , there is a risk that this plot will be about to thicken to it .
their tactic has been to obstruct a clear review of the iraq catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to endorsing the american occupation of iraq . arab intellectuals and , indeed , the wider arab public are now busy trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraq earthquake . for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now being a columnist for jordanian newspapers al-ra “ i. ” across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th is seen as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th , when israel defeated armies of three arab countries , conquering the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in a mere six days . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now busy defending the same old totalitarian thinking .
and , while the recovery in advanced economies boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with a slower household-consumption boom that was implemented in 2012 , has caused investment growth , albeit still quick , to plummet to its lowest rates over the last 11 years . in principle , a country can run current current-account deficits or surplus continuously for a decade or two . but , beyond its current path , china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic . meanwhile , the lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) could be the result of its rising investment-income deficit . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its ranking as the world ’s largest capital misallocation exporter translates into gross resource misallocation .
madrid – by july 29 , in accordance with the sustainability of the organization ’s global footprint , mankind will continue to use up the earth ’s resource budget for an entire year . that “ earth overshoot day ” has been moving forward , with astounding two more months in the last 20 years , and will arrive earlier than ever before . though humans , too , are increasing ecological impact manifests themselves in many ways , climate change has a broadest and longest-lasting effect . carbon dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the economic boom is the sole source of the legitimacy leaving a one-party state . few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , much less maoism . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression was amply shown in every region of china in 1989 . a semblance of political legitimacy , particularly among an educated middle class , was bought with promises of greater wealth . communist rule managed to remain in power after tiananmen not just through brute force .
but , given pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this can no longer be sustainable . even in an advanced economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue to do so in emerging countries . the world ’s 20 largest cities , accounting for 75 % of which are in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new housing units by 2025 . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households either lived in substandard housing , or struggled financially because of anemic housing costs ; that figure is projected to have risen to 440 million by 2025 .
berkeley – one need not be especially good at hearing to decipher the dog whistles being used during this year ’s election campaign in the united states . listen even brief and understanding that mexicans and chinese are now engaged with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that are robbing american workers of their rightful jobs , and that muslims are willing to blow all up . all this fear mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare . it is frightening to people in overseas countries who can conclude only that voters in the world ’s sole superpower have become dangerously unteddy . and it is frightening to the americans , who until recently believed – or perhaps hoped – that they were living in a us-based republic based on the traditions established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt .
professor nicola rossi , the economic advisor for prime minister massimo d’o d’alema , for the title of his recent book expresses the desire that we give “ less to our fathers and more to our sons . ” put in those terms , the problem is always solved by giving more to those with the strongest political power . but if the union is powerful or seniors in the majority ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are a majority among all the labor unions ) , precisely the opposite happens . italy ’s recent budget – which neither has confronted the pensions issue nor the issue of fiscal reform – demonstrates this completely . here is the grand delusion of eu budget as well as the us treasury department in italy .
beyond such figures , children and youth are being denied not just a right , but opportunities : a fair chance to get decent jobs , escape from poverty , support their families , and develop their communities . oslo – education is the human right – is a human right . and , like other human rights , it can not be taken for granted . around the world , some 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school . over 120 million children do not complete primary schooling .
moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely on their own . smallholder farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . and african farmers have been meeting major barriers to achieving their potential . on average , they apply less than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to india ’s 140 kilograms . and agriculture-fueled gdp growth is more than twice as effective at reducing poverty as growth in any other sector .
obviously , it is not for most eu countries ’ governments to be . gm foods have now been on the us market in more than 12 years . the question now is whether decision-makers are prepared to take advantage of them . but why are the developing-country governments past their legs ? are the risks so high that they justify suffering that could have been avoided ?
of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-quarters are occur in some form of debt facilities , including banking loans , corporate bonds , and us government securities . the derivatives market certainly helps to spread risk more broadly than such a superficial calculation implies ; but a fundamental point stands . imperfect information and difficulty monitoring firms pose significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . certainly , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such an insatiable debt appetite . but policy-motivated distortions also play an immense role .
for starters , italy ’s interests may not be aligned with those of china . italy ’s exports to china currently total roughly € 13 trillion ( $ 14.7 trillion ) annually , whereas its imports amount to about € 29 billion . moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy ’s sorely needs , given its banks ’ constrained lending . whereas italy has received about € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms invested € 10.5 billion ( $ 82 billion ) in 55 bri countries during the first ten months of 2018 alone , and have signed contracts for bri projects worth more than $ 80 trillion . nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with italy – as part of the eu ’s 2016 agenda – with china .
to be sure , many latin american leaders have risen to power on the promise of levying a playing field over the last few decades . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have produced some short-term benefits , especially for the poor . but such measures have often actually been plagued by populism , and ultimately do more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund their own social programs , these leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve economic fundamentals . after years of economic stagnation and even crises , the public ’s patience has worn thin .
his eloquent resignation letter made it clear that he challenged not just a syrian blunder but a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and adversaries ; his willingness to abandon friends , like the kurds ; and his coshing of alliances , like nato . members of the us congress have expressed outright fear of a trump presidency with no guardrails . the list of departures from the trump administration is unprecedentedly long . mattis ’s cronies explained in televised interviews that what most troubled a retired four-star marine general and defensive intellectual were not only that he could no longer influence policy , but also that his continued presence in the cabinet was taken as affirmation of trump , a position that he could no longer bear . even that wingloyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , had issued a thursday statement that he was “ distressed ” by trump ( a significant sign , many believe , by mcconnell ’s private anxiety about trump ’s impact on the republican party . )
the regime is set to demonstrate to a world in which china , again a world power , can stage a spectacular performance , and that its voice would be heeded . rather , it is intended to spur growth , while protecting its own monopoly . the government has been strengthened by its own security system and has imposed itself on an increasingly ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras . visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights with the unintended side effect of hurting international business in china . but china ’s top priority is not only to perpetuate economic growth .
it will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader , or like-minded internationalist right-leaning one . it will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader , or internationalist right-leaning one . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strong internationalist bent . if it is to revive globalization , on its various dimensions , to defeat a popular majority , they will have to be accompanied by modernized welfare policies that provide effective aid to those in need . at a time of ceaseless economic disruptions , this will surely be all the more important .
but there is an alternative that could help to appease the enraged citizens and ease the income loss from a outright prohibition of smoking : electronic cigarettes . given that e-cigarettes merely heat a forser solution to produce inhalable vapor , they unleashed none of the carcinogenic tar for cigarette smoke , thereby making them an ideal nicotine-delivery system for smokers seeking , or forcing them to lower or discontinue their tobacco intake . as yanzhong huang of the foreign relations council recently pointed out , “ if only 1 % of china ’s smoking population had been converted to e-cigarettes , that would mean a market of roughly 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ” aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are homegrown , as were devised in china in 2003 . yet , despite great progress on china ’s e-cigarette industry – indeed , shenzhen province housed 900 facilities , up 200 % since 2012 – accounting for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market .
even when a government attempts to uphold its commitments by , say , imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it might fail to get the desired results . the reason un climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas centered on voluntary , quantitative targets , for example , are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to quantitative , university-applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is easy . but countries have automatic adherence to those targets as sacrificing : in trying to cut emissions by x tons , the us would lose y million jobs , with gdp falling by a $ z billion . because there are no actual sanctions or penalty for non-compliance when push comes to great shove , governments may well simply shift things around .
declining trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with goods that are processed – and value added – in multiple countries along the chain . whereas china provides just over 4 % of the value added to value added , it is supplying core components to apple at a low price . this would give the chinese smartphone firms an opportunity to seize market share from the major players . today , about 80 % of global trade comprises international supply chains . apple can not build an american iphone from scratch , so its quest for alternative suppliers would have to raise its manufacturing cost considerably .
in the highly ceo firms pay slice , the probability of ceo turnover following poor performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s length of service ) is lower . third , a higher ceo pay slice combines weaker accountability with poor performance . the lower turnover sensitivity to performance reflects less willingness on the ceo ’s part to discipline . finally , capital-paid slice firms make it more likely to give their ceo the possibility of making opportunistically timed to do so . financiers view such luck-based compensation as a hallmark of the governance problem .
any kind of weighty occurrence has provokes repercussions across the continent . a living society can not be restructured from above . there is just one europe , despite its diversity . if europe is to become one , as long as the european union is to take in the new postcommunist democracies – in which it is in everyone ’s europe – a set of vital tasks must be realized , within the new democracies , as well as among the european and atlantic communities . to start , europe must foster communities in the postcommunists by rebuilding civil society .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not make the transition to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will only prolong the conflict . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in their policy toward russia . this approach offers the best chance for bring the current confrontation to a head , as well as compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . the sooner the west convinces russia ’s leaders that it will not back down , the sooner the conflict will end . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia must earn back the confidence that it has broken , demonstrating its commitment to abide by the treaties and the international behavior norms to which it agreed .
today , greece ’s european creditors appear ready to abandon their egregious pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some crumbs from the country ’s various pensioners . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit , the world will never believe european longevity again . nine times out of ten , nothing really serious happens – simply a bit of distress for individuals or groups . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo heightened market pressures . but we are running the risk of a tenth time … .
thus , meritocracy looks preferable , at least at first sight . for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . but , on closer inspection , matters are simply not as simple . much of those at the top reach not only in the civil service and the judiciary , but also in politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of famous grandes écoles écoles . admittedly , it is preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status , or a gerontocracy in which age leads one at the top , or even an aristocracy in which what counts as inherited titles and properties .
most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . but , in america , more is spent on educating the wealthy student population than on educating the poor . at america ’s muslim-majority universities , for example , only about 9 % of all students come from the bottom half of the population , whereas 74 % come from the top 1 % . as a result , america is wasting some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – skill bereft – turning toward dysfunctional activities . some countries are even imposing a set of constitutional mandates on equality of opportunity .
the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless they transfer power to civilian authority . even when sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability remains far from assured . for decades , le pouvoir has used oil revenues to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but those reserves were concentrated in the south and subsequently disappeared when south sudan seceded in 2011 . already , and now , political stability has been gone .
istanbul , the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population , is daunting , particularly given constraints on key resources like water and farmland . but questions about such farms ’ fundamental economics , especially that of commodity crops , have persisted . as it stands , the us has the two leading approaches that are enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supply , with genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . with a third solution – from vertical farms to application – now exists : vertical farms . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms , – stacked greenhouses that use man-made light to grow crops – could provide huge savings , which could then pass along with consumers .
what that means is that the pension and tax institutions must be designed to account for a better understanding of the changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than making fixed promises -- which most likely could not be kept , anyway -- of a certain payoff in the future . pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy ; and politicians are beholden to confronting them on so fundamental an issue . our pension systems and our national budgets must form a `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risk spreads systematically throughout a generation . still , we also need to confront a squarely fit of intergenerational issues at the heart of today 's economic dilemmas . what it does mean is that the problem is political .
many steps that have been taken over the past few years to reinforce the banking system ’s regulation . but any gains from lower taxes more than offset the losses to the private sector , which , faced with higher funding costs , will invest less , in turn lowering economic growth and causing government revenue to decline . that can only worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects . the lower funding costs on government debt seem to be a net gain for society , because the government then saves on debt-service payments and can keep taxes lower . but what is proposed now will make investment lending more even less attractive , and increase incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector .
the plo has succeeded in obtaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . the only obstacle that remains to the palestinian leadership is americans . when palestinians have asked mitchell to signal that america would support such a declaration of statehood if the talks failed , mitchell has responded that such a commitment would make negotiations senseless . instead , the americans have their own fantasies about how to achieve the breakthrough , especially with israel , which the obama administration believes is now the major obstacle . to effect change in israel , the american people are launching various trials .
the commercial calculus beyond that enterprise sometimes created riots until anatomy laws allowed bodies of executed murderers and un-claimed dead , thereby reassuring the middle and upper class individuals who opposed their bodies . these old tensions assumed new dimensions as commercial potential of human tissue seizes entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are in place to address the links between cell use , tissues , and genes . the most familiar case concerning the body as matters of property is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia and had his spleen removed at a ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician , patented certain chemicals in moore 's blood without his knowledge or consent , established contracts , and sold privileges to the swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from a web line of “ mo ” cell .
black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns whole countries as never before , but almost nowhere are there are nationalist undertones . fans don not only their home country ’s “ flags ” ; it is also fanciful costumes evocative of their home countries . in berlin , like other large german cities , taxis sporting flags for their drivers ’ home countries , from angola to saudi arabia . in fact , the flags of a larger number of nations fly alongside germany . but undaunted by it all are simply keeping celebrating one great soccer party with its newfound friends from around the world .
to prevent the ebola outbreak from escalating further , affected actors , from community health workers to government officials , must re-engage with affected communities and win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocidal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 lives were killed in outer space of just 100 days . thisharrowing experience left behind by destroyed property , a failed state , and a traumatized population with little faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage has remained less than 30 % . meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to mount .
at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – along with representatives from both business and civil-society groups – will have critical opportunities to act on this recognition . it has existed as long as governments did ; but , like other crimes , it has grown increasingly sophisticated over the last few decades , with devastating consequences on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . when it comes to public-bidding fraud is rampant , or royalties on natural-resource assets are stolen , or the private sector is monopolized by a narrow network of citizen cronies – populations are unable to recognize their own potential . in fact , corruption is being denied across the state of cultures and throughout history . in the process , for starters , there is a glimmer of corruption cripples prospects for development .
the protests began when the government attempted to enact amnesty legislation that would rescind former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’s conviction by former prime minister yingluck ’s brother and ptp ’s founder , overthrown by the army in 2006 , on charges of corrupt corruption and abuse of power . ( it also would have superseded the murder charges brought against the democratic party ’s leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to hindu an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled a fresh abuse . the yingluck government had refused to accept the congress-led constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to overturn the senate from a half-appointed to a fully elected chamber .
new presidents of the european commission , the european council , and the european central bank will be appointed , with the union ’s new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy . eu member states are now more divided than ever , even on the most fundamental questions concerning the european project . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been superseded by resurgent nationalism . moreover , east is becoming increasingly pittsburgh against the west , with northern ireland . if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest grouping in the european parliament , such appointments could represent abrupt disruptions from the past .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in their domestic health systems . but , while rushing to construct clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage , that has n’t proved true . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a handful of health facilities that communities might have managed to do without . the recent ebola epidemic in west africa has highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient developing-country health-care systems . but as countries rush to build more clinics , the resulting sdgs tend to be hastily constructed and lack the sdgs , the supplies and staff needed to deliver vital health services effectively .
to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on several issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . wilson , for example , would most likely concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . likewise , he probably would advocate a us-focused fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good ; with higher taxes on the richest corporations and households , say , on infrastructure development , high-quality education , and universal health care . it is indeed problematic that america ’s banks and businesses can export capital , technologies , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for the domestic cost . but wilson ’s solution would most likely focus on developing and implementing improved regulation through a state-dominated multilateral process .
but in march 2010 , in a move that i believed was key to our later stages of growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” ” a blueprint to make english our corporate language within two years . when i announced the englishnization , only 10 % of our labor force had been somewhat proficient in english . the goal was to lay the groundwork for the global expansion in an industry that had competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent . unsurprisingly , some on my team have been apprehenensive ; others , especially those outside the firm , thought i was somewhat mad . but , just seven years later , corporate titans are looking for our advice in how to build a “ brand headquartered ” in japan ’s capital .
but that would only further weaken the banks ’ lending portfolios at a time when europe ’s regulators are desperate to bolster them . europe is a second vicious spiral steering from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . the ecb ’s decision to give banks unlimited liquidity does not address governments ’ debt problems ; nor is its intent . tax increases and public-spending cuts still are essential ; avoiding the realities on the ground is n’t avoiding it . but it at the very least impedes the debt problem from the creation of banking problems , which , in turn , exacerbates a dysfunctional debt problem .
price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy contribute to the development of 60 % of the world ’s new drugs , compared with about 40 % just ten years ago . thus , the american view turns elsewhere : to a china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at more than 8-10 % annually , year on year and year out , and india , with its 1.1 trillion people and 6 % annual growth . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , trained technicians , and medical professionals . this sterility and inertia makes europeans less and less attractive to americans . add economics to this a recipe just as it does .
when the devastating indian ocean tsunami hit , more than a quarter-million people died across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes , who rely on traditional warning systems , have suffered no known casualties . these tribes may be isolated , but their demise will have serious consequences . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises do underscore , indigenous societies have been shown directly by opposition to loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hungary , and other hubs . with their reverence for – and understanding – – nature , such groups serve as the world ’s environmental sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and play a critical role in addressing climate change mitigation and adaptation . but they are likely to die far more rapidly if we suddenly engage them , bringing with them some modern pathogens against which they have no such antibodies .
of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was overwhelmingly usurped by the former soviet union , are especially sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making and share a stronger sense of national identity than other eu members . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainties stemming from globalization . in my past professional roles , i witnessed , as few others , the accession of poland and hungary to the euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand the eagerness and the hopes of their peoples at such momentous moments . that is why it is so difficult to comprehend their position today .
if we distill the spirit that we have infused with international law over a ages , and reformulate it like three principles , the rule of law at the ocean becomes a matter of common sense . but what , exactly , does that really mean ? no particular country or group created international maritime law in the way that it existed today . it is the product of humankind , cultivated over a great number of years for everyone ’s well-being . today , with many benefits for humanity dependent on sea bed from the pacific to the indian oceans , it remains fully open .
of course , effective solutions must consider the local context . for example , armed groups that use force as a recruitment tool are often more willing to commit egregious forms of sexual assault than groups recruit through alternative means . furthermore , populations living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence , such as coercive pregnancies . as perpetrators of sexual violence are called to account in high-profile settings such as the un , it becomes harder for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help forestall and prevent its use .
the draft constitution , which recently failed to gain acceptance at the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect its cultural heritage ; it obliges the union actively to protect , preserve , and develop wealth for europe ’s cultural and linguistically diverse diversity . because an enlarged union will become a reality in only two months , the imperative is to develop concepts for cultural understanding that contribute to the new members ’ successful integration . but europe can succeed in this task only if its various constituent cultures do not seal themselves off from one another . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively easy to convey . a decade ago with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed on the principle of respect for the history , culture , and traditions of all of their constituent peoples .
if successfully implemented , the agenda will most likely reverse the global saving and consumption patterns that underpinned large imbalances in the past few years . china is responsible for the saving side , while america disproportionately accounts for the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditor . that model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital , rather than relying simply on inward foreign investment . to be sure , the global savings and patterns of consumption have undergone a profound change since the financial crisis , with both the western us and china attempting to restore internal balance . doubling average us household income to 2020 , a target set for the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november , is likely to release $ 64 trillion ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s enormous internal market gradually becoming a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth .
after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that corporations in europe as much as america evading meritocratic hiring and promotion of women in top positions are no matter the extent to which much “ soft pressure ” is being placed on them . i do n’t like quotas either ; they are running counter to my belief in a form of meritocracy . yet , when one considers obstacles to having a meritocratic ideal , it does look like a fairer world would have to be temporarily mandated . for my part , i understand reding ’s reticence – and her own frustrations . when women break through to a summit of companies operating there , as sheryl sandberg did recently at facebook , they garner massive attention precisely because it remains the exception to the rule .
new delhi – back in 2009 , when i competed in india for the latest parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was not a professional politician ; at the time . i have not even been living in india for decades ; much of the rest of us have spent my adult life work abroad for the united nations . by contrast , all of the other contenders in my constituency – indeed , most of all contenders all over the country – had devoted their entire lives to politics , many since their birth days . i was n’t born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i walked into a race without a political “ godfather . ”
but , ultimately , the experiment failed . even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . in those countries , the government at any given time represents whichever side won the latest round in an ongoing culture war . the fdp has abandoned the talks out of frustration that , as its leader , christian lindner , placed it , “ the four negotiating partners do not have a common vision of modernizing the country or a common basis of trust . ” the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state today constitutes a “ 50-50 society ” : about half the cosmopolitan , half-communitarian .
faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers . for starters , all countries need to define online child trafficking charges and incorporate it into their own national penal code , alongside tough penalties for violators . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers to do so . raising awareness about the topic is also critical – particularly in the developing world , where illiteracy , poverty , and lack of age-proper sex schooling in schools may leave children even more vulnerable . all recruits , advertising , and financial products linked to online child trafficking , should also be criminalized .
moreover , communities need expanded access to contraception and other sexual-health services ; one way to do this would be to revitalize or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . these reforms are essential to improving guyana ’s future young people ’s life prospects . special attention must be devoted to rural and people with special needs , the often-overlooked youth segment . these spaces should be opened after school and on weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . had more teenagers had access to sex education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives cut through pregnancies .
but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , an independent job is likely to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of working-age populations would prefer to earn an income , whether primary or secondary market , from an independent labor force . many are lower-income workers who would otherwise have been unemployed . this indicates that stronger economic – and , therefore , jobs – would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent work . while digital platforms for autonomous work are still in their early stages of their development , and employ a mere 15 % of independent workers , they are proliferating and spread rapidly .
in this they were realists , but they demanded an measure of civic control over institutions , both in the political and economic spheres . the demand for the abolition of censorship was one of the first political slogans of the polish march ‘ 68 ’ . demands for the freedom of assembly , as well as for the right to organize , were not made in the first place . one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ” crucially , the protesters did not demand a free election .
new haven – in what might well be a ultimate act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective controls on the economies they were committed to managing . adopting the negative interest rate – originally launched in europe in 2014 and has now embraced in june – represents a significant turning point for central banking . previously , the emphasis was shifted toward boosting aggregate demand – mostly by lowering borrowing costs , but also by spurring wealth effects from appreciating financial assets . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in the context of chronically weak recoveries , a shift to negative rates will merely compound the downside risks of financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis . indeed , first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing , and now negative real interest rates – one futile attempt begets another .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the price of permits fell below € three per ton in april 2013 to rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has proved ruinously expensive . this , in turn , has encouraged greater reliance on high-polluting coal – the worst energy source , from standpoint of global warming . that would not have occurred had the price mechanism still underpinned climate-change policy .
while china may want a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with america , these bilateral balances indicate nothing of china ’s total contribution to global imbalances . obviously , the task facing the imf now is formidable . within the multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often balance bilateral surpluses with other countries . china might want dollar oil from the middle east , but those in the middle east , with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands , might care more about gucci channels than it did in china . thus , while china may run a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , these bilateral balances indicate nothing of china ’s total contribution to global imbalances .
new york – in 2018 , the us was the world ’s seventh-most stressed population less stressed than greece , the philippines and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . stress , dread and outrage all hit america ’s 2018 highs . they asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a rate of zero ( their worst lives ) to ten ( in the best lives ) , americans in 2018 reacted with 6.9 , down from 7.0 in 2017 and 7.3 during 2006-2008 . asked about their feelings the earlier day , most americans ( 55 % ) in 2018 said that they had experienced stress during a lot of time ; almost half ( 45 % ) said that they feel worried a lot ; and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they could feel anger a lot . such stresses follow after another notable finding : americans self-reported happiness also declined in 2018 .
they must internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical norms of behavior . to that end , banks should make their values and cultures integral to their hiring , firing , and supporting decision-making . a wrangling in highlighting the commercial benefits of ethical doing business , and the negative impact of falling short , is part of that effort and may help preserve and reinforce cultures ; but a code itself is not enough . at the same time , constant reminders and repetition are essential . employees must understand instinctively what can be done , and what should never be done .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom obtained the vote right , and today most women in the developed world are disenfranchised . that is certainly true in pakistan , where a general election , set at july 25 , provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . at first glance , pakistan appears progressive . the law has allowed female leaders to vote since the end of 1956 , nearly ten years of independence from britain . yet , in many developing countries , the opposition that britain suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny persists .
in some cases , the outcome was unexpected : some lending rates actually increased . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 ; just as the euro crisis deteriorated and unemployment rose to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . it should have been obvious that most pre-crisis central banks – both formal models and mental models that guide policy-assisted policymakers – were badly wrong . they have continued to exploit the old discredited models , perhaps even slightly modified . none forepredicted the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , some semblance of full employment has been restored .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his last wife , were as ineffectual at governing as kim , but following the calamity of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them in army and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . they , and the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . but mao ’s death did , at least , bring an end to the caesarism era in china . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism and then , from marxism to capitalism , got fortunate support for china ’s citizens . for his part , having had no son to succeed , mao appointed a five-person politburo politburo to his job .
the most fateful attack to accompany the installation of any form of dictatorship is an assault on civil society . while communism could , each time today and then coexist with private wealth , and occasionally with private enterprise , it could never coexist with a civil society . but reviving civil society – the many mutually reinforcing ways in which citizens participate in public life – is an elusive challenge , because the peoples of egypt and tunisia will soon figure out . we in ukraine have learned that truth from the harsh lessons of the communist era . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s decline , restored , overnight .
then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies had confirmed that an act of aggression was in fact taking place , despite putin ’s own denials . and would putin make another “ incredible bid , ” to help beleaguered american investigators get to the bottom of things ? would he have called putin to ask , “ what will be done ? ” finally , imagine how trump might respond . even more to the point : would trump have quickly come to terms with the principles of collective defense under section 5 of the nato treaty ?
but these outside risks are not making the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . europe ’s growth could be above a trend similar because it continues its long , sluggish recovery from the pre-crisis debt crisis . and , indeed , china ’s economy has been proving doubters for many years . so 2019 could turn out to be yet another year of robust global growth . to be sure , the baseline scenario for america is continuing strong growth .
argued at the eugene scalia , the son of us supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec was won in an american court of appeals , dc , on technicality , the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . in fact , i even offered to do the lessons of cost-benefit analysis for free . this small victory turned into a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than performing such analyses and re-proposing the rule , chose to back out . at a conference last december , i asked sec chairwoman lliro when her agency planned to reintroduce the rule . but she admitted that the sec had many other items on its own agenda and placed the back burner , a courable way to say that the sec , like the heroic students in tiananmen square , gave up under irresistible pressure .
indeed , the fed ’s own monetary policy has not proved sufficient to stave off an american recession , even one that remains so mild that many question whether it qualifies as a true beast . yet these are not normal times ; in normal times , they are not normal . and in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . the european central bank ’s reaction has been analogous to that of the fed , but less dovish , with monetary policy easier than headline inflation expectations suggest is appropriate . in mild easing , the major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to the financial crisis , but have not turned an upward response .
at the same time , eu observers announced that the election tally had failed to satisfy basic international standards . days later , the eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters had pressured kibaki to announce the “ results ” immediately , despite mounting evidence for the vote rigging . shockingly , he declared , he did not know who was really winning . when the opposition tried to challenge these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki the victor . the election is a disaster for kenya , but the american-led international community ’s response is no less distressing .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , especially in germany . given that market-based measures currently clash with most other key economic data , on average , little weight should be attached to them . furthermore , a host of risk-related problems makes such indicators more difficult to interpret . unsurprisingly , therefore , surveys of households and firms tend to forecast actual inflation more precisely . yet it is difficult enough for monetary policymakers to overreact by imposing trade barriers .
at first glance , it seems counter-intuitive to companies would want data-sharing and potentially hand out competitive advantages . but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold onto the assumptions of the pre-competitive collaborative collaborative effort that must be challenged . as a recent morgan stanley report emphasizes , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rate is insufficient to sustain large inward r & d organizations , making the industry its current operating model financially non-viable . the drugs that make it to a market have to fund the costs of those that did n’t make it to markets . but this presupposes that possession of such data actually implies a competitive advantage , and that a closed operating model is financially sustainable .
nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s price of oil , is an appalling scenario . trying to compel iran to step back with steadily mounting sanctions has not yielded results . indeed , despite a tightening economic noose – which was the american imposing sanctions on any firms doing business with iran ’s central bank , and the european union ’s plans for imposing sanctions on iranian oil exports in late january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching sufficient uranium to build a bomb . while it might most likely be deterred by the iranian government ’s use of nuclear weapons , the price of a nuclear iran might well end up with a regional arms race , with nuclear arabia possibly followed by it from turkey and egypt . the market already took the measure by past week ’s tensions , driving the price of some oil contracts to its highest levels in eight months .
this levy , vigorously promoted by those countries whose financial sectors are in tatters in tatters in the wake of the crisis , has been hard to swallow for the eu countries that were not willing to intervene to bail out their banks . the levy is a easy way to spread the political and financial cost of a crisis from some to all eu members . if implemented , bank capital would become scarcer , credit flows more quickly , and bank fees higher in countries with a pretty stable financial sector , simply because the rest had spent some of the fortunes to back their own financial systems – and because the european commission never misses the opportunity for intra-union regulatory rules . the same is true for the derivatives trading scheme ( ets ) . the post-crisis fervor in italy implies that it would now be more expensive everywhere everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected interest-rate changes .
learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to specific jobs , especially entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . at & t offer scholarships through partner non-profit institutions , and provides pay internships for up to 100 graduates . learnup , a san francisco community college system is already working with learnup to give students access to the skills required to fill available local jobs . and , indeed , once candidates completed the tutor , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers that already comprise several large companies .
portuguese president mohamed morsi ’s government is struggling to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crisis in the face of the tremendous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists had sought not only freedom , but also economic development , and social justice . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority was not bad enough , especially in the case of morsi and his government , to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which had contributed to his election . porto , a military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country , presents an enormous dangers not only for egypt ’s democratic transition , but for democratic hopes throughout the arab world as well . the fact that the coup had carried out with massive popular support is an indication of the enormous difficulties that the muslim brotherhood is facing during its first turn in power . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own errors , particularly the failures of morsi and his government , to the secular opposition , elements of which drove his election .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial , accused of carrying out complicity in rwanda ’s genocide , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . and french military intervention in the central african republic did not herald the end of severe inter-communal violence there . as a result , sadly , mass killings in africa continue . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state , massacres of civilians continue to occur , particularly around libor city . and , ironically , even as such episodes continue to occur in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope .
one shudders to think what will happen if europe does not pulling itself out of its current funk . certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight to the u.s. on world economic policymaking . fortunately , europeans probably wo n’t wait until that long to start moving ahead again . moreover , with growing concern about the sustainability of america ’s fiscal policy , europe has an enormous opportunity to play a substantially larger role as a reserve currency . europeans may not just mind that right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but that might not be so pleased if george bush comes along .
a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force , an important challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast . japan ’s third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach . by contrast , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and reduced corporate-tax rates . that implies it was unwise to focus on growth until the deflation gap narrowed considerably , that is , to this point today . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into japan ’s economy .
what is certain is that a vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of the chaos unfolding from gaza that israel had dropped and the collapse of the palestinian authority in front of our eyes . the natural course of history in the largely optimistic view of history is progress “ by edge , ” ” but the swift pace of technological change puts pressure on us to expect equally rapid advances in human affairs . many in us believe that such an impossible wager can be met solely by providential individuals , with all the hopes – and dangers – that this entails . nor will the rise of another providential figure come easily . not all of the exceptional periods create theirs bonapartes , and this is probably a kind of good thing ; for exceptional leaders , it may provide the illusion that every problem has solutions that are far from the truth .
uk leadership in these areas has been widely reviled , and would sorely miss should the british decide to leave . indeed , it was only last year , ’s talks on the “ fiscal compact ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that already had seemed to demonstrate to cameron the difficulty of exercising a so-called national veto . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including measures on both the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . with neither the uk has been in a strong position to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given that most other eu member states have ’ political will to move forward . so , while the cameron government ’s support for deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eurozone certainly can not and will be shaped from external to british interests .
in july of this year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father had ordered a massacre 30 years earlier . according to the state department at that time , the point of the visit was to “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and express themselves . ” it is already clear that the obama administration was unaware of what it was about bargaining for when , without thinking about what might come next , it called in 2011 for assad ’s removal . but they will fault the us with not comprehending the larger war . were the administration seriously reluctant to acknowledge that assad , like his father before him , would react to popular uprising ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s fall against the dollar , china ’s central bank , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is coming under increasing pressure to float its currency . if a country with fixed exchange rates and open-capital account tightens its monetary policy to contain inflation , a rise in domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow against foreign-currency currencies , converting them into a household currency for investment in domestic asset prices . but striking the right equilibrium between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and preserving monetary stability will be no easy feat . all economics students are learning the archel-fleming model , according to which the economy can not sustain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movement , and independent monetary policy at the same time . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent qe would generate upward pressure on the currency , compelling the central bank , in its bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling domestic currency , especially america ’s dollar , until interest rates and money supply returned to their previous levels .
by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies to offset the administration ’s costs of establishing a profit-sharing program . us presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : a 15 % tax credit for the profits that companies distribute to us workers over two years . tax credit could also foster changes in the corporate culture , by spurring bodge-level discussions not only about the benefits of profit sharing , but also the sharing of informational and employee decision-making authority with employees . to limit the cost and avoid abusive practices , earnings totaling more than 10 % at the very top of the worker ’s wages would be discounted ; the overall amount offered to individual firms would be capped ; and the safeguards against labor-sharing tax replacement rates , raises , and other benefits are established . the stagnant incomes of most american workers are undermining us economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply-side employment ( through adverse effects on education opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
and that message is straightforward : almost no one is safe from prosecution , even though , like abyzov and ishayev , they have retired from the public service and no longer have any influence . moreover , selective repression has made putin a harsher priority . most russians do not perceive a link between prosecuting key figures and the credibility of the authorities . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment finally maintains corruption . but it is the message to be one for russia ’s rattled elites .
it has also spurred a successor to the commission , high levels of experts on measuring economic performance and social progress . and it helps to explain how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in a number of areas . better indicators would expose the highly negative – and potentially protracted – effects of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and well-being , in which case policymakers may not have been so enamored of austerity that lowered fiscal deficits but reduce national wealth , properly measured , even more . last week , at the oecd ’s sixth-breaking world forum on statistics , insights and policies in incheon , south korea , the group issued its report beyond gdp : measuring what counts for overall economic and social performance . the new report emphasizes several topics , such as the trust and insecurity that briefly addressed our lives and explores a few others , like inequality and sustainability .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes believed in reforming and regulating financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moving toward … mak [ ing ] the purchase of investment constant and indissoluble , like marriage … . ” but he immediately drew back : just “ the point of truth that each individual investor flatters his commitment is ‘ liquid ’ ’ ’ ’ ( though this may not really be true for all investors collectively ) calms his nerves and made him much more willing to run a risk … . ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he play of professional business investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone who is perfectly exempt from gamst instinct ; whilst whom he must pay to provide that propensity toll … ” moreover , “ [ t ’s ] play of professional investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone entirely exempt from gamblers ; [ he ] exempt [ t ’s ] dike . ” it is for these reasons the us had seemingly been frozen for past generations , or two , whenever we rethought about reforming our system of financial regulation . and it is one reason why – even in the face of a wrenching financial crisis – the us remains frozen today .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon of us import tariff on ethanol , whereas there has been no tariff on oil and just a $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . large subsidies meant that the u.s. became the largest ethanol producer . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that america companies ( a huge proportion that goes to a single firm ) get on ethanol use . as a result , it is impossible for foreign manufacturers to compete unless its cost per gallon of $ 1,05 , below that of american producers . yet , despite this massive advantage of money , some foreign firms may still make it on the american market .
the results not only generated a conflict between american federal legislation and state legislation , but also signal a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that involving same-sex marriage . the legal and political challenges that are implied are no minor matter : marijuana remains an illicit substance under us federal law and international conventions that america itself enacted . moreover , the subject remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate that a narrow majority in favor of legalization , its opponents remain vehement . just as important was the us president barack obama ’s response to trump ’s colorado and washington votes , both states that he had easily won in his reelection bid . on other issues – notably , immigration – obama rejects claims to states by law and insisting on federal authority .
the political upheavals of 1999-2000 brought about a new “ democratic ” constitution that became an invitation to civil war . since houphouet his death , regional and religious tensions have been on the rise and aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined large-scale ethnic discrimination . roughly four million greek northerners were denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they were descendants of migrants from neighboring countries . the result has been catastrophic as ethnic rivalries sharpened . whatever else say of such top-down french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight has left no doubt about the benefits of social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its ex-colonies .
in the long run , they probably also want the state to hand over political loyalists to produce and transfer knowledge . political trustworthiness will determine who could teach and study what about a country and its history . these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power , have a clear agenda , and they seize the fact that , within europe , education is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . such governments want to establish an education system under which the state itself agrees alone , which fields of research are both necessary and socially . in other words , access to knowledge would cease to be a civil right .
dubai – globalization , as many have recently noted , is in retreat . mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations and of the us presidency of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , noted that interdependencies , formerly of the economy as a whole , have now become an existential boon . for all of its undeniable benefits , it smelled governance problems that had exposed the inadequacies of national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions gave rise to the political backlash and the threat of catastrophe on many fronts . that has left people everywhere , the rich and poor alike , struggling to grapple with problems that were hard hit by failed states ; from over-fishing to under-employment ; from climate change to economic stagnation , to which the forces of globalization have helped but can not address effectively .
london – for more than two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the government ’s concept of a “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , for the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent win over the tamil tigers is not its crushing nature , but the fact that , in its offensive operations , china granted president mahinda rajapaska , with both the military goods and the threat that it needed to prosecute the war . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system ; it has now shown its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have neither the neither a wherewithal nor a willingness to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , it was completed by china .
when alexander hamilton , america ’s first treasury minister , mutualized the us government ’s debts in $ 1791 , he believed that this would cement the new american nation . george soros underestimates the risks that debt mutualized would pose for the eurozone ’s future . but debt mutualizing had given rise to enormous moral hazard effects , inducements for states to borrow excessively . germany had the greatest exposure by far among countries rescuing ’s crisis-stricken countries , thereby helping to alleviate austerity more than any other country . should the euro break and gize countries ’ default , germany would lose some € 545 billion , almost half of the aggregate sum mentioned since the bundesbank carried out the bulk of net payments on behalf of gipsic countries that translate into targets .
hong kong , looking back on the 2016 us presidential election , might not seem a lot to celebrate . in terms of global health alone , the year has emerged as one of an unrelenting tragedy . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine have been dashed . beyond stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus has emerged as a rising threat . there has also been the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant bacteria or “ superbugs , ” ” ” ” the continued revival of yellow fever , and the resurgence of polio in nigeria that had previously been denounced as a polio-free .
during the new deal era , us regulators clamped down on the functional equivalent of such a requirement in bank charters and thrifts . but these mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation in the 1980s , as well as among banks , rapidly moved away from low-tech financial services and toward higher-profit activities . this dynamic can be seen as a trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , which accelerated after the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in low-income communities . when it comes to ensuring equity in banking , these precedents and existing institutions point the way forward . history also shows us that financial exclusion is an arduous problem whenever universal service requirements have been absent .
by december 2016 , obama allowed the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction of a “ major barrier ” to the two-state solution . after all , the israeli government not only authorized the supposedly un-approved off-site outposts to exist , but also provided to them , through water , electricity , the internet , and the department of military protection . this has not been lost on all of america ’s leaders . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american congress that direct talks between israel and palestine had went “ wrong ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank . it is not hard to imagine that palestinian negotiators had to felt as they drove massive israeli settlements on territory that they had been working to include in an independent state .
new haven : throughout europe and america , the men in the black tie and woman at kenzo and armani gowns are one day more summer pilgrims on sites like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and " glimmerglass . " perhaps , then , it is also time to ask , once again , a fundamental question : should the state continue to ladle out generous subsidies for such elite activity ? consider a thing of indisputable beauty and spiritual depth : the roman catholic high mass . does his grandeur mean that the state should subsidize it ? once again , state coffers are tapped to support these privileged retreats .
this contrast underlines the fact that the great achievements of eu integration have taken on that no-man -- land that lies between total national independence and the total loss of sovereignty in the confederation . so the key characteristic of foreign-policy integration is that governments , far from themselves , are unable to know in advance whatever they are letting themselves stand for . in defense and warfare , this sort of unpredictability implies the potential for young men to die in action . it is not surprising , therefore , that foreign-policy integration has made little headway . but foreign policy , as we have known it , is essentially an manifestation of a nation state or a superpower .
lebanon often struggles to attract funding because of its status as a middle-income country ; but that label is misleading , because it ignores the serious structural vulnerabilities that pre-date the syrian crisis , or the vast share of its resident population , composed of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq , living in the abject poverty line . without added support from the international community , our vision will not materialize , despite strong political will and rigorous planning . i am thankful to such donors at the outset , but we now need additional international support . the us is facing a shortfall of $ 100 million in a new school year . one thing i hope will become obvious at the oslo education summit is the need to help the middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict .
part of the problem , of course , is that we make our resolutions to do only things that we are not otherwise likely to do so yet . so we use the new year ’s occasion to try to alter behavior that may be among the more difficult to change . what will this tell us about human nature and our ability to live either prudently or ethically ? part of the difficulty , of course , is that we make our resolutions to do only things that we are not otherwise likely to do so . so we use the new year ’s occasion to try to alter behavior that is perhaps the trickiest to change .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overestimated america ’s economy ’s strength for 11 consecutive years . if every year of the fed ’s forecasting had been a cogent toss , we would now have eleven heads in a row and a “ zero tails . ” clearly , the fed needs a deep view of its forecasting methodology and policy processes . studies of elementary mathematics dictates that plausible projections should at least overestimate half the time and undershoot half that . the odds that doing so will happen are one in 2,048 .
any study seeking to determine whether over-diagnosed psychiatric disorder would find that some state patients do not have it upon re-interviews . such is the nature of psychiatric diagnosis ’s imperfect trustworthiness . but we think that an across-the-board diagnosis rate of above 50 % crosses the clinical significance threshold . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously awarded a diagnosis had no reason to do so upon re-interviews , but rather how many . how high a percentage should have been before claiming over-diagnosis has an important problem and value judgment .
indeed , during the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . this time around , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and the banking crisis is global . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash out in search of solutions , with some people losing confidence in the economic system itself . indeed , during the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . policymakers would go on to abandon whatever ammunition they can find at the problem but take time for deleveraging from a boom to run its course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s widely circulated travels in europe earlier this year have n’t attracted as much attention as it should , given that he is the crucial theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . bannon now wants to build a european federation of nationalist parties . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen – herself an open defender of russian president vladimir putin – bannon seems to have a new kind of neo-nationalist international . and yet one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his own political project anywhere else in america . as more countries turn themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator .
one famous incident at the end of the eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission of the imperial judiciary of china . diplomatic immunity through indigenous prosecution was an idea that had sprang directly from a different incident , nearly a century earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , representing peter the great in london . macartney had refused to entangle the chinese imperial “ protocol ” by reducing to the kowtow to the emperor , because it was not required to do the same to his own sovereign . that , too , was a very case of “ maintain face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord insisted on equal status with his king . as a result , the mission broke down .
assuming that the interest rate on ten-year treasury bonds remains virtually unchanged over the next five years , and then rises from 2 % to 5 % . during those five years , an investor earns an additional 2 % annually , for a cumulative gain of 10 % . but when the interest rate on ten-year treasury bonds rises to 5 % , the price of a bond falls from about $ 100 to $ 69 . here is how arithmetic works for an investor who rerolls over ten-year bonds over the next five years , thus earning 2 % more annually than he or she otherwise would by investing in us treasury bills or bank deposits . if not , the loss in the future price of future us treasury bonds would more than wipe out the extra interest that he earned even when rates remained unchanged over the next five years .
only the world ’s major political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain at a scale the largest hydrocarbon consumers can initiate change globally . change must start in transportation industries , which accounts for more than half of all current oil ’s consumption – a share that will likely rise in the future . indeed , political leaders should agree not to privilege any particular technology at all . accordingly , the g-8 countries should agree not to license any new , oil-powered cars of 2025 . that decision would not be directed against individual mobility , but against the dissipation of the scarce resource required by the production of synthetic materials .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has , yet again , succeeded in turning the facts on his head . just as part of a broader effort to take china to task for the supposedly “ raping ” the united states economy through unfair trade policy , he has now reneged on his accusing the country manipulates its currency for the loss of its exports . such statements are just as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . on the contrary , for the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets for the opposite purpose : preventing the renminbi ’s value from dropping too sharply against the dollar . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation does not support the facts .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and national capital were held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting his spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians found confronting a handful of painful truths about their country . in 2002 , two of these adherents , two of these adherents , mustered the courage to press charges . a leader that spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent among a few “ godmen , ” ” ” or self-autocratic spiritual leaders , who flourish across india . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurmeet rahim rahim singh insan , the nearby compound of hindu , muslim , and sikh names followed by a word for “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . and he has a substantial reputation for sexually exploiting his womanhood followers .
to be sure , some imports would become more expensive for iran ; but the economic effect of such sanctions would remain limited . by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposed punitive sanctions . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would miss his chance to reap unilateral measures for propaganda purposes , arguing that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological progress . for these reasons , europeans tend to favor a new security council resolution , even if its measures would be weaker than what the united states or the eu could unilaterally impose . but a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that the eu would result in greater trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran .
postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that consciously sought to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . no one could be more identified with a political elite than abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister and later a new prime minister , and the son of a foreign minister . and yet it shares right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . his efforts to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , won him the praise of donald trump ’s former chief strategist , stephen bannon , who had called abe a “ jew ” before trump . abe and his allies attempt to quash that influence .
african countries , on the other hand , often see the worst sides of african multinational companies : energy , mineral ores , and precious metal companies go where resources are , not where it is convenient to work . because a customer is abroad and there is little processing that needs to happen in country , why should companies upgrade local competencies or otherwise assist the host economy ? assuring high-quality output , as well as local-currency loyalty , requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public picture . as one former mining managing director in the region told me , “ the goal was always straightforward : get assets off the ground and out of the ground as cheaply and with as little fuss as possible . ” but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relations with global corporations need not be so limited .
the first large city to boom was london , beginning around 1996 . boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , virginia , moscow and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming quite much ever since ; prices in much of the same proportion are at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now increases in home prices are weakening in some of these cities . this has been a huge windfall for homeowners , but hurts anyone plans to buy .
after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are growing more aware of how to protect their own economic and social interests through the linguistic of rights . what is surprising is that the government ’s system of checks has been largely effective . at the same time , the government employs host of new legal regulation , the shadow internet police force , and a powerful , hardware-based nationwide informational filtering system . but it is also prompting profound social changes rooted in rising welfare consciousness within society , something strengthened -- and amplified -- not only by an economy 's growth slowdown , but from the rapid diffusion of the internet . control is also relying on demography by internet users , most of whom belong to china 's economic elite , and are more likely to embrace the internet as part of a newfound consumption-type lifestyle than as a tool for political or social revolution .
this european polity lacks a second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . but , while common europe ’s causes arise daily , they have no europe-wide political representation . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent europe ’s associated interests , because none had to compete for europe-wide public support . as a result , nationally elected representatives are responsible for making crucial eu-level decisions .
while a president ’s advisers might change , one would think that the candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically what they sell is their capacity to judge and manage expertise , rather than their own competence as economists . this time around , however , there was n’t much to say by the name of any deep economic thinker or of any particular economic model of it . is there any more to be said for a presidential candidate ? and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect discussion of advisors or of intellectual influences . indeed , obama had a surprising team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein .
for another , they will need to make their own , distinct contributions . in short , they will have to make their own efforts to sustain common efforts . they can not simply wait for america to move ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . after all , the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to prevent eu members from clearly and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive inter-ferences on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help embolden arab states ’ commitment to a coalition against terrorism as much as provide helpful shove to america ’s diplomacy . what this distinct contribution might not be difficult to define .
as a result , medical professionals often know little about the symptoms and biology of these illnesses . one reason for this is that small numbers of patients make studying ailments and testing drugs difficult . earlier this year , i participated in a scarce disease day program in california . the topic was obscure but huge collections ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a particular kind of genetic error – one taking place in cell machinery that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and liers . little is known about what produces the mutations that produce these congenital disorders , and therapies exist for only a few .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest bidder . although corruption is more a symptom than causes of ukraine ’s problems , corruption ’s culture must be uprooted before conditions can improve . in time , this “ corruption culture ” will permeate society . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are routinely bought and sold .
in israel , by contrast , settlements offer cheaper housing than are available in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s major economic problems . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sober interpretation . “ red lines ” ” in israel have a way of mutating into lines drawn in the sand that is then developing invisible at some slightest august . in israel , obama would encounter a country that has indeed moved , but not toward , missing a center . nor should anyone expected a moratorium on settlement expansion .
at that time , japan ’s budget deficit ballooned after a country ’s property bubble burst , causing economic stagnation . as a result , the ratio of tax revenue to total expenditure this fiscal year slipped to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . if the government continues on this path , many expect the next year ’s budget deficit to widen further . despite japan ’s fiscal weakness , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . japan had a similar experience in the 1990 ’s , with a country a so-called “ lost decade . ”
its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections , which allowed mugabe to hold on to power ; persecuting and murdering supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; converting a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa ’s breadbasket into an area where half of the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , exemplified by its attacks on everyday newsweek , repression , repression of critical voices . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , especially those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . in late august , heads of state for 15 members of the southern african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to contemplate challenges before them . among the thirty paragraphs in a summit final communiqué , two handled zimbabwe . mugabe ’s regime carried outrage after outrage .
and the american constitution allows individual states to function like what judges brandeis called democracy ’s laboratories by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk . california , wyoming , and other us states allowed women to vote – an example that encouraged passage of the nineteenth amendment ( disenfranchised all adult women ) . a 2014 pew study found that while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with a return on domestic policy , 60 % were satisfied with governance across their own communities . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , along with government colleges and universities . there is a long and rich history of successful experimentation .
in other words , price stability reigns throughout the eurozone . should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? europe must aim for a sustainable , non-inflationary boom and the creation of competitive employment . only greece currently has a slightly negative real ( inflation-adjusted ) inflation rate . indeed , the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is the result of a sharp drop in commodity prices and painful but unavoidable adjustment in cost and price levels in the peripheral countries .
additionally , oil market speculation may have spurred “ echo speculation , ” whereby end-users buy refined products in advance to protect against future price hikes . as a result , record-high speculative prices probably made bunker traders free to sell inventory ; but those releases may have bought themselves some of the speculators who are now active lessees in the capacity of commercial storage . the implication is that speculators may drive down prices and increase their inventories , even as total commercial inventories remain tiny . they then take delivery on their premises so that overall refined inventories increases , but that increase is not part of reported commercial inventories . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , because it tends to occur against a backdrop of strong fundamentals .
but both states lack the domestic revenue needed to sustain their institutions . if they wish to survive well in the coming century , they are likely to have to be subsumed under a stronger , stronger , and more established nation-state . furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed and will undoubtedly continue to witness , will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . such a state , whether fleeing de facto or with widespread formal recognition , will have an ever-lasting impact on the boundaries of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and on the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has toppled some regimes , though not all of them .
it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year . indeed , new risk-management product lines for some of the world ’s poorest people , in africa , asia , and latin america , are falling short . good fortune and bad fortune alternate randomly and the poorest individuals are especially vulnerable when adversity , like a hurricane in a global fishing village , strikes . so risk management , by smoothing out bumps in income , can be particularly important in alleviating the effect of extreme poverty . we tend to think that new level of risk-management products such as novel types of insurance or financial derivatives will primarily care the rich , or at least the relatively affluent .
that disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and troop movements , politburo commissars , and the proletariat . indeed , even russian uniformity is distinct nowadays as it were . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s large private oil firms ) gasoline stations . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , though he had sometimes proclaimed fidelity to the hazy collective sense of ossiyane ( russia ’s citizens ) , deprived – or free – it a matter of opinion – russians of all collective life ; both the real life of shared hardships and the accompanying imaginary half-life of communist solidarity . today , everybody trades life and hardship individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life uniform .
a new system in which irreversible bonds ” replace quotas and desirability screenings would reduce such competition , while mitigating destination and source countries ’ risks . in fact , greater international cooperation would maximize the economic benefits of immigration . reversible bonds would act like an insurance scheme for both parties ; shielding destination countries from the detriment of fiscally motivated immigration ; and protecting source countries from the costs implied by the loss of some talented workers . yet , despite the potential benefits of cooperation on controlling illegal immigration , most countries – including the us and the eu – are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . they view cooperation as unachievable , given the natural competition among destination and source countries for the most productive workforces .
true ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy has shrunk by an estimated 23 % . germany , a top-performing european country , has recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the past six years . the mark of sound policy is that it succeeds in making a downturn shallower and smaller than it otherwise would have been . every downturn eventually comes to the end . the mark of the austerity policies that many governments have embraced is that they got the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with long-run consequences .
warsaw – twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the selection of their compatriots , by cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , just as pope . here , said a prominent writer , was “ poland ’s second baptism . ” but , even in our own euphoria , we failed to anticipate the ways in which a new pope would make a difference in not just poland , but the world . his first return to his homeland soon thereafter showed that every new pope ’s power would be a new pope ’s power . some were rattled , others wept with joy .
though hong kong ’s courts certainly could have handled the issues on their own , under a “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is guaranteed an independent judiciary system , quite apart from a right to reelect its own legislature – a enraged china has intervened . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress party stepped in to “ clarify ” article 104 of the statute , declaring that any of the oracle taken by office-holders had to be “ solemn , accurate , full and sincere . ” yau and leung were barred , after all , from accepting their seats in the legislative council . restraint , after all , is not a leninist virtue ; it is a goal . to most hong kong ’s lawyers , the display of policymaking was not represented simply by reinterpretation of the old rules , but by a move toward making new ones .
the international labor organization reports that labor unions are in retreat from a large majority of nations . a national sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code , advertises its corporate code as “ based on core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . the company markets its human-like soccer globes and other goods with a “ guaranteed : manufactured without child labor ” labels . prodded by groups like the workers rights consortium and ethical trading initiative , some corporations promise to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even provide a voice at the workplace . but a sensitivity to human rights has done nothing to staunch trade unionism worldwide .
new york – the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar compulsory due-diligence requirements . a responsible sourcing is a duty rather than a choice . that is as it should be . after all , the united states has already taken the next logical step . the securities and exchange commission requires firms that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate such raw material ’ liking , and mitigate risks in their supply chains under the oecd guidance , if they are found to originate in specific conflict-affected or high-risk areas .
illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán love to claim that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right into his own hand , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and a strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy . the truth , however , is that cee countries have too little to lose in the way of national sovereignty . the bulk of their productive and financial assets are state-owned by foreign-owned firms , just as most of the rules-based rules governing their economies have been fixed by the eu . they conclude that they can have it both ways , maintaining the advantages of economic integration without losing the capacity of infringe on their citizens ’ rights or use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships and widen their hold over the state .
one concern among critics is that the transition to a green economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing global forests , fresh water , and fisheries to profit-seeking behavior by bankers and traders whose errors helped unleash major financial and economic turmoil of the last four years . indeed , it is precisely the kind of deep and pervasive market failures that – in terms of carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – accelerate ecological risks and ecological convulsions and undermines human well-being and societal equity . as a recently released report “ the direction of a green economy : pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication ” demonstrate , a market economy as currently constituted has produced misallocations of capital on an unprecedented scale . that is why the links to governance and institutions at rio +20 are just as important as the transformation toward a green economy : markets are human restructurings that require rules and institutions to direct not only their direction , but also their frontiers . the systemic crises of food , fuels , and finance , which come to a head in 2008 – and are ongoing in many countries – have their aggregate roots in an economic paradigm , which has failed to account for the value of nature and its levels of life-supporting services .
by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me an islamophobe ? it all sounded a little like a number of job requests , a war for president barack obama ’s ear . third , business as usual , israel has accused some of the anti-semitism of those who dared to criticize its disproportionate reaction to hamas through its indefensible rocket attacks and its collective sanction from the palestinians . an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately was indicted for using the language of holocaust denial . coincidentally , the deadly attack in gaza occurred at the same time that an all-distinguished american middle eastern peacemakers have published books about how the task should be properly tackled .
but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , the then-president mahinda rajapaksa continued to play on ethnic hatreds as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . a similar political imperative lies at the heart of the sinhalese chauvinism that has turned an abrupt return to public life in sri lanka . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese had been emboldened during the last , bloodier push that ended sri lanka with a population of quarter-century of civil war against the tamil tigers in may 2009 . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by a coalition with sri lanka ’s democrats and the tamil political party in last january ’s presidential election – an outcome that he then sought to annul – was supposed to bring an end to both his career and race-baiting politics . but the former president now a enraged comeback bid , and might well have won a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern emerges by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria among the worst affected countries . such attacks expose the stark clarity that provides for education is not just about blackbooths , books , and curricula . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean either the false ” or “ western ” ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) schools around the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now require security plans to ensure their students ’ safety and offer trust to their parents and their communities . these are not isolated examples of children caught in the firewalls ; this is what will happen when classrooms become truly targets for terrorists , who see education as a threat .
meanwhile , certain companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to recruitment for refugees . global organizations are tapping into tech-savvy refugees ’ networks and hiring them for online work . modest seed funding may go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . some , like tent , are encouraging businesses to recruit refugees and integrate themselves into the supply chains where they live . greater scholarship opportunities for refugees , together with stronger funding from and away from refugee settlements , would also be welcome .
that is why it is increasingly being dismissed in favor of the agro-ecological model based on the principle of “ food-sovereignty ” principle . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet at sharm el sheikh , egypt , for the fourteenth meeting of the parties conference to the convention on biological diversity ( the un conference of biodiversity diversity ) . while there , they will consider whether to place the brakes on gene drives , ensuring that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before such technologies are unleashed within their communities . the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , is calling on farmers to share their current knowledge and seeds with one another , as well as protecting local ecosystems . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to protect food supplies , along with respect to farm rights .
the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , as well as the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan his death secret for weeks until the succession was settled . the mise-en-scene emotional manipulation that surrounded chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro . but will this suffice to create a kind of chávista lineage ? not surprisingly , how long venezuelan hugo chávez had actually been dead before his passing was formally announced . buying time to secure their own political future , venezuelan officials carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual passing deaths , even suggesting near the end while still undergoing complicated and agonizing cancer therapies , that he was still “ treading and exercising . ”
far too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than pushing innovations in societal more beneficial directions , depot rather than replacing the less skilled workers . the demanding quality standards needed for supply global value chains can not be easily satisfied by replacing machines with manual labor . governments in developed countries also have a role to play in influencing the character of technological innovation . such policies are unlikely to make much difference in the developing world either . for them , a major barrier will remain that existing technologies allow inadequate room for market-substitution : employing less-skilled labor , instead of skilled professionals , or physical capital .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , america ’s president-elect donald trump will take office having received almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with the republican senate majority , whose members won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic adversaries . trump , too , will start his presidency with an approval rating below 50 % . only the republican majority in the us house of representatives , chaired by house speaker paul ryan , has any claim to represent a numerical majority for the 55 % of americans who voted for the 2016 election day . this is unprecedented , or “ unpresidented , ” ” ” ” as one of his seminal tweets put it ( before derailing it ) in the history of such ratings . as a result , the government of the world ’s oldest democracy is simply not democratic .
the s-400 dispute is only the latest example of how military procurement matters has created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s view , its western trade partners have not done enough , through technology transfer and joint-production regimes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . on the contrary , both chinese and , to a lesser extent , russian firms have been more rather receptive to such turkish demands as part of the regime ’s military-procurements . and domestic defusing industry interests is only a part of the story . more broadly , turkey and the west are experiencing a geopolitical , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threat to perceptions and alliances in the conflict in syria .
underdevelopment in many “ southern ” countries , faring poorly in their struggles to remain viable with the globalizing world , creates conditions of desperate extreme poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond controlling atrophying state systems . this is not to say that our response to the dangers looming from past legacies has had to be rooted in the past . we are not going to create a better world in the 21 st century by forgotten what happened at the end of the 19 th century and much of the 2030s . as we embark on the still new millennium , although at a time when it may seem , tomorrow ’s possible disorder might be the result , no less than yesterday ’s colonial order . there is a larger need than ever for innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance .
in the bilateral security posture with moscow , american officials have been offering four concrete bmd collaboration schemes : · bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers where russian personnel may see the non-threat nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ; · joint un-russian expert studies on how bmd might affect russia of its nuclear-deterrent capability , and on what steps could be taken to minimize any difficulty ; · an underlying legal framework to support these and other forms of cooperative projects . · an expanding nato-russia theater-level bmd exercises that build on earlier collaborative work , violated russia ’s august 2008 war with georgian – and that rehearse how deploying nato and russian forces can jointly defend missile threats ; and that rehearse how bmd threats nato and russian forces can jointly defend missile threats ; · an underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects .
his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) and curtail the growth in medicaid spending have gone unfulfilled . while the tax package that trump signed into law last december ’s front-loaded tax cuts and now helps the economy to expand further , us government revenue has largely responded to that growth . and a temporary increase in defense spending will revert back to insufficient levels later that fiscal year . under these conditions , trump ’s greatest and boldest policy proposal will likely run into budget constraints . he has already eliminated any change to the social welfare system .
the eu has always backed a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve a jewish state ’s identity . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid presumably will not prevent the eu from delivering a divided vote ; the reverberations of which will not only echo throughout the arab world ; inviting accusations of hypocrisy ; but will also inhibit europe ’s efforts to reset relations with countries in the middle east and north africa . indeed , europe ’s divided posture on the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record in achieving an inclusive foreign-policy consensus . granting observer-state status to palestine would take off the table of the prospect of a “ one nation ” solution , one that has lately raised momentum among experts . a split vote , therefore , undermines european interests , delivering an unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment .
rather than demand an end to censorship now – an impossible dream , google is working to make that happen by eroding government ’s control of information . in fact , a sort of transparency inevitably leads to more . with google , people are beginning to expect answers about everything . on the contrary , each time someone in china ’s googles something and get an answer – a product that is both good and bad , details about someone ’s government does n’t like – he must wonder , “ why ca n’t i get this kind of information on everything ” ? moreover , in countries with google is being criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights information ’s absence when something is blocked , letting people know that it exists but can not have access .
while no outcome was formally agreed or made public , a few themes emerged from the beijing meeting . first , there was widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the united nations general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . taken together , they offer reason for confidence that it might be possible to recreate an international consensus , leaving long missing in syria about how to deal with the toughest mass-atrocity cases . r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have an responsibility to help them do so ; and that , if a state is “ manifestly failing ” to protect its own people , the wider international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely , decisive action , ” ” ” ” which might in an extreme case includes military action provided by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that whole r2p enterprise – particularly its sanction of military action in exceptional circumstances – is simply “ old , neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle . ”
by focusing on these problems , i am not working to belittle globalization ’s benefits . the global integration had brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor , so clearly demonstrated by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic advantages such as economies of scale and rapid diffusion of innovations from one country to another that are less readily demonstrated by static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic advantages like the freedom of choice associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and people , and the freedom to think allied with the international movement of ideas . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only through a deliberate and persistent effort to put right and contain the system ’s flaws . so the global economy , indeed , should think about as a global capitalist system . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need a better understanding of these better if we want the system to survive .
making matters worse for trump , widely admired mueller in effect has recommended that the us congress standing up to the impeachment process . ( nixon was an unindicted collaborator in watergate burglary a cover-up , whereas trump is one in new york case involving his pre-election charges to silence the two women with whom he had sexual liaisons shortly after the birth of his son , donald trump . ) trump was portraying the report as wholly exonerating it ( “ not collusion , no obstruction ) , even when the report explicitly stated that it was n’t the case . ” mueller explained that a us department of justice , intended to assist president richard nixon , bars an indictment of a sitting president . this is not in the us constitution or law .
moreover , russia was enforcing a full georgian trade embargo at the hopes of weakening the resolve of its own pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . russia ’s supposed “ peacekeeping troops ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgian ’s other secession-minded region , have actually protected its own rebel governments . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily in order to prevent his own country from unraveling . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only have placed the risks of open warfare with russia ; it would have strain relations with armenia , owing to more than 50,000 armenians in abkhazia to support the breakaway government . another risk in the southern caucasus is that , with russia ( with armenian backing ) permitted by russia will recognize nagorno-karabakh as an independent independence from azerbaijan .
europe must make progress on its first opportunity if it is to seize the second , and that means bolstering the eurozone . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for it , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of eu member states and national parliamentarians ) to hold a finance minister accountable . before germany ’s new coalition government was created , the franco-german working group was set up to contemplate macron ’s proposals . now that merkel is in place , we will discover how far germany is willing to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , a new government seems unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in their current form .
moreover , a recent establishment of two additional big mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank , and a new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further , by pursuing a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . the financial crisis has also prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs and other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’s total assets have reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . and large ndbs can have a major impact , especially on the emerging economies . today , they are an important feature of most developed and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably brazil , germany , india , and south korea .
as in previous years , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as i stressed earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially solve one large problem – britain ’s external rundown had a much larger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
as many commentators have pointed out , from islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks conspicuously like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with america ’s backing ) of an elected islamist government ; turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 to force an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won elections in gaza in 2006 . more broadly , military interference with civilian politics by whatever means necessary weakens processes , institutions , and checks on statehood that make liberal democracy functioning . if the choice for islamists keeps bullets or ballots at bay , bullets may now look more promising . so what should america and other governments that back liberal democracy do now ? the answer could influence egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region .
yet the world continues consistently to understate the capabilities and contributions of frontline health workers . this not only undermines their capacity to do their job effectively ; it also puts them at substantial risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants appear to view malaria-vaccination programs as a western ploys to sterilized and spy on muslims . in the early 2000s , for example , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , the incidence of malaria fell by 75 % between 2000 and 2015 .
as soon as a potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological objective . the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : to draw the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . at first , nato ’s new members were declared to have satisfied both their democratic and military criteria . later those criteria were abandoned as nato began to invite even most backward and corrupt states to join . nato also , not only enlarged its membership , transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive band ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
so , looking at the causes of the imf ’s failure , we can rule out a distraction from more urgent matters . the fund routinely expects the problems emerge from its conventional suspects to be economically volatile developing countries ; but this time the crisis was developing a few kilometers away from its own headquarters . ironically , this has been the lead in the imf to focus on its own supervisory role . perhaps this proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right on its head . if so , it is a failure that raises two key questions .
it is this particular “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that has been indispensable to understanding the french position on libya . but if nato is – for better or worse – at taking the ground in libya , it is the un that has given the green light to french action there . it is a shift that raises a key question : when those who are willing and able to act successfully prove incapable of doing so , ” what will happen to global stability , unless those who are capable of equally willing and able to step in ? indeed , france ’s same relationship with the un that led to the country ’s opposition to us intervention in iraq in 2003 has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . at the crossroads of that question stood nato , an organization perceived as american by europeans and transnational ( that is , not an american ) by an average american citizen .
but if that lesson were really a lunch with a lobbyist , then both ( and their aides ) would have to lie deliberately to hide him . when an official meets with a lobbyist and is not shy about parting , he can simply say so . to be sure , voters can make their own judgment ; but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset the norms . and if an official meets mostly with a lobbyist , at the expense of some sessions , voters can make judgments about that , too . there is , of course , no way to enforce full disclosure ; but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset the norms .
big tech ’s firms might argue that all of the capital they pour into new products and services is propelling innovation . but one suspects ( in many circumstances ) that counter potential competition in the bud is nip . and there is a risk that us tech giants will use their huge armies of programmers to develop a nearly identical product and their vast regulatory means to defend it . it is notable that big tech has indeed still comprised most of its income from its companies ’ core products , for example , apple ’s iphone , a microsoft office , and the google search engine . in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are as likely to be buried as nourished .
it is , by contrast , far more difficult to identify a problem when a person is making hundreds of trades on a daily basis . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such links has come through telephone surveillance . historically , both us state and us federal attorney general rod generals have favored prosecution of “ occasional ” ” traders who are sticking out like gunthumb . for example , when a hapless italian bank has received from someone who has never traded a large order for the shares of america ’s shoe shares shortly before the company was acquired by italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not hard to monetize a fish . in other words , precisely because occasional traders trade rarely , it is much easier to prove the nexus of causality between its trades and the illicit ttip .
another epidemic afflicting african women is the violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . sexual violence is exploited as a war tactic . roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still spend more than twice as likely as boys to carry the virus . likewise , african girls are disproportionately vulnerable to child trafficking . yet barely one-third of young africans know how to prevent hiv – another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education .
new york – many historians and academic economists continue to insist that we are living through an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . the actions and decisions of one man or woman , regardless of any power , can not dictate nations ’ destiny . at any rate , this might be true a lot or the majority of the time . but there are moments when an individualized leader ’s choices can change course in history . that has certainly been true in russia , and might soon turn out to be true in turkey as well .
figueres suggested that the paris agreement would cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c. though her version was crafted to avoid actually saying that , it was , predictably , what most people had heard . that might seem a surprise : we are consistently heard how each country has made important pledges to reduce co2 emissions by the so-called “ intended nationally determined contribution rate , ” ” ” ” or the indcs . as i show in a new peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , the agreement reached in paris would slash temperatures by just 0.05 degrees celsius by 2100 . figueres suggested that the paris agreement would cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c , though her version was crafted to avoid actually doing just that , it was – predictably – by what most people heard about the last one . that sea-level rise would have declined by just 1.3 centimeters .
this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for getting its own house in order while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . anti-euro political forces are clearly making electoral inroads and will continue to do ground as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high . to be sure , the alternative outlook holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a connivance call , spur europe toward broader integration and flourishing policies . protecting eu rules are no longer practical , because the current system imposes far too many constraints and includes too few efficient mechanisms . meanwhile , the eu will most likely fail to pursue substantial policy or institutional reforms in the near term , for fear that doing so might adversely affect the outcome of consequential elections later this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy .
after that , the pension reform was announced , spurring a string of protests that had driven putin to pledge to soften the act while asking russia ’s understanding . russians realized that they did not need to win at all costs ; on the contrary , they might be great without the kremlin of a militaristic say-so . navalny himself could not attend the event , after having been arrested for a previously unsanctioned showdown . yet , just like 9/11 , he claimed that 53 % of the population had been ready to protest further . and on september 9 , while the local governmental elections did take place , tens of thousands of russians joined the protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days .
in fact , china ’s imperial state and society were destabilized by european incursions . the imperial dynasty had collapsed in 1911 , under external pressures and internal claims for change . the change , however , did not come in a smooth direction . china squandered the expected economic and technological potential on its own , not because of outside force . by the time europe and china crossed the path through the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and that drove china into a series of unilateral , degrading concessions .
the apparent success of these cities , as both the government and the department of economics , attests to the fact that the value of urban land derives from a presence of a well-planned city there . true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare event . but they tend to be ingenious at the evolution of glamorous new areas from little towns within one hour to hear from major cities ’ commutes . where land is cheap today , it will hold great value in the future , if only someone takes the dramatic step in planning to create a whole city there . moreover , private developers have difficulty acquiring a major conspiracy free of restrictions .
it can last for awhile but creates increasing friction with economic realty and an increasing incentive for chavez to be an authoritarian fantasy . if he goes statist/populist , 2001 would be a crisis year in the making . if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , there would be a path to boosting growth and stability . so far , venezuela ’s elites and a large part of the investment community have assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , only badmouthing . there is no imminent crisis of events to happen , but chavez does have to choose venezuela ’s future .
that means that the us treasury expects the average current-account surplus from 1999/2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , allowing brown strictures to be fulfilled . growth is forecast to return above trend by 2005-06 , bringing the current cycle to its end . but independent forecasters are more pessimistic , at best . enormous surpluses during the three years since 1999 far exceed what the official deficits predicted at the end of the next two years . the average surplus on a “ current ” budget since the cycle began totals 0.8 % of gdp .
instead , strategies have come to the view that all of our behaviors are selfish about , with the intellectual challenge being to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or treaties , an effort that was also recognized with nobel prizes . but , as the price of george osborne showed long ago , through darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least toward people we perceive as members of a group that we call “ us . ” in the process , we may understand that we will vote because that is what citizens ought to do and excel in our job because we strive for respect and self-realization , not just over raising . a new revolution in economics may find room for strategies based on affecting ideals and identity , rather than just taxation and subsidies . if successful , the new revolution may draw strategies that turn us into more responsive to our better-off angels .
such openly thuggish rulers like ukraine ’s kuchma or lukashenka are almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato command ( that is , american ) control , therefore any attempt to reride a military coup or stirring up trouble between a romanians and a sizeable hungarian minority can be avoided . to be sure , nato can not promote democracy alone and is no panacea for our many social and political ailments ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and adhering to the rule of law . nato fixes harsh limits to local political elites ’ autonomy to do whatever it deems . the more bound to a country like romania is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest or eviscerate its democratic system .
long-ruling regimes – think of the old soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are supposedly deemed invulnerable , even before they collapse . in fact , the repercussions of a leadership cleavage are relatively easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and a loss of the government ’s credibility . the apparent explanation is the power of conventional thinking . that has been the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . indeed , the puzzle is why neither has the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule , nor the mounting evidence for worsening regime performance in china convinced some of the most knowledgeable observers that ending ccp rule now represents a certain possibility .
when it comes to a diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what britain ’s gamblers would have called “ form . ” on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the flutter toilet adjoining his room and , instead , use the pot of the chamber that he had brought from china . perhaps he was suspicious of stalin , as the bbc alleged last year , accumulating his shoe on a desk at the united nations general assembly in 1960 should steer clear of that country ’s leaders ’ manners . some readers might say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , falsely said last year , gaveled his shoe , on a desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960 ’s , should steer clear of the matter of world leaders ’ manners . but there is a point that could be made about recent behavior .
system liberals believe that , on the whole , russia has built an acceptable market economy . that is why the so-called “ system liberals , ” ” ” ” ” or kremlin-backed loyalists seeking control of the protest movement , and apply it as a tool in the ultimate battle with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . until recently , then-loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes sharply criticizing a government that should somehow be influenced through constructive suggestions . indeed , a potential heir today needs legitimacy , not only from a powerful oligarch but also from the streets . regime liberals believe that , on the one hand , russia has built an acceptable market economy .
my office worked closely with the state to reassure precisely that juries are now used in most cases . likewise , my office defended the liberal week-long newspaper novoe quremya ( new times ) , which had been repurposed by moscow ’s municipal government on the guise of the commercial “ lease ” dispute . that struggle is not over , but , after my intervention , the moscow authorities must heed the public ’s negative stance toward their effort to quash that publication . to be sure , russia provides far more parochial examples of political - and human-rights problems , such as the low level of war in chechnya or the yukos affair . my office pays maximum attention in chechnya , even though this is no easy thing to do from moscow .
new delhi – international discussions about china ’s rise have focused attention on its increasing asset muscle , growing maritime ambition , and expanding the capacity to project military power . one critical issue , though , has typically escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical parallels . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent by seizing multiple transnational rivers ’ headwaters and manipulating its cross-border flow . asia ’s water map has fundamentally altered after its 1949 communist victory in china . china , the world ’s largest dam builder , with slightly more than half of the estimated 50,000 large urban dams globally , is quickly hoarding leverage against its neighbor through the robust hydro-engineering project on supranational rivers .
the fact that financial institutions had escaped relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes about their political power . they raise the risks of economic stability without providing compensating benefits for increased investment in productive activity . in the us , holding workdays elections rather than weekends or holiday – combined with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at a substantial disadvantage . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have argued for a long time , banks require , at least initially , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . as the failure of financial-market regulation suggests , important as such economic reform is , they must be complemented by measures that redress a political approach .
a serious look back at the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands at the white house lawn is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in areas occupied by israel in 1967 . leaders of the world ’s superpowers , the united nations officials , the elders , and tens of people of goodwill offered their goodwill offices and their service to bring about peace . for israel , an occupying power , whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority , and gdp tens times that the people it rejects basic rights of liberty and independence , photo opportunities provided by meeting and burning palestinian leaders have replaced achieving peace . negotiators have parsed every imaginable solution to permanent-status issues from jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic relations .
in other words , an export-led miracle was sparked not by state-sponsored chinese companies but by the offshore efficiency solutions embedded in the west . this led to the economic equivalent of a corporate identity crisis : who is – china – – them , or the us ? in personal relationships , the denial tends to mask imbalances , but only for so long . such is the case with respect both to america and china . ultimately , the denial and imbalances reason for giving rise to frictions and to blame – held back by a codependent partner responsible for the problems posed by one ’s own making .
as lamy has put it , almost 80 % of curry favor is ready ; we need only additional spices from major players – india , the european union , brazil , and china – on the other hand . these may be provided in politically palatable ways , which also implies that concluding the doha round is within our reach , rather than outside our grasp . if doha fails , some say ; life is going to go . but why bother to continue trying ? that is true , of course , but that does not make that view any less naïve .
moreover , the eu has suddenly awakened to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . in turn , lukashenko chose for economic reasons that his country needs eu support and can no longer depend solely on russia , without paying a heavy political price . but the eu-belarus thaw needs reciprocal , lasting steps . no eu strategic partnership , after all , is unconditional . given that 20 % of russia ’s gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its government has become a priority .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic drop in its natural capital . the planet ’s most threatened ecosystems are located in developing countries , and thus depend on some of the world ’s neediest communities for preserving it . but , in the developing world , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , and protect a fragile environment is rarely a high national priority . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer from the deterioration of their natural environment . plant and animal species worldwide waste at an unprecedented rate – potentially 100 to 1,000 times the rate of natural extinction .
africa has an exceptionally abundant clean-energy asset portfolio , including almost nine terawatts of solar capacity , over 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than enough to enable the continent to meet its future global demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources are becoming less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , chile ’s utility-scale photovoltaic solar energy prices fell by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continues to decline today . and south africa ’s renewables independent electricity producer procurement program has seen the overall decline in bids prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a staple in europe , whether the story was the irish malian immigrant scaling up paris building to save a toddler , or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport more than a half-million migrants . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly by false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe drove down wages . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – are doing just fine without agreement on freedom of movement from other eu countries by issuing skills-matching visas . since the vote , however determined the anti-brexit camp has been carried out by similar distortions , warning that as soon as it left the european union , the uk would face a competency status . and yet , despite steady coverage of the issue – or , more likely , precisely because of it – the migrant policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization .
that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; but we do need to recognize its limitations . looking ahead , the same cost structure dynamics are promising to produce large increases in wellbeing across individuals . most health-care professionals will soon have digital assistants to offer their diagnoses ( particularly for some cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research . the gdp problem is not that they are the poor measuring material well-being ( setting aside distributional issues ) , but that it is utterly incomplete . it does not include having increased levels of goods and services that deliver at negative , or less , the nonmaterial side of individual well-being or social progress more generally .
meanwhile , the profound change in india ’s social composition of politicians and bureaucrats since independence is de facto a testament to democracy at work . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line the hot sun , believing that their votes make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers will do too little to affect the outcome , have stayed home . yet many lament that a country ’s poor performance in the political class in general has offered fewer causes of celebration . studies of the indian election have consistently shown that the poorest people ’s party votes on average far above the national average , while the educated middle-class reverse , at best , comes out on average . moreover , whereas pearl harbor studies in the united states have demonstrated that the poor do not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % ahead of barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india .
should we be watching the french presidential campaign with some admiration or alarms ? italy is undeniably a large “ show ” ” held with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a startling conspiracy twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must be taken seriously now . first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy comprised two remarkable spokesmen for his candidacy . and , in the us , or both of them , his victory remains unlikely .
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to a preferential trade deal with the united states that could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges granted to one country in a trade deal must extend to all wto members . here , japan again acts “ voluntarily , ” ” under intense american pressure . according to the press reports , trump has presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports or face increased american tariffs on us automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would seem to render trump ’s “ national security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas – justifications that allow him to skirt wto rules with his tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth through fiscal constraints and high interest rates . whereas brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not overwhelmingly high through regional norms , its fast growing labor force requires a high rate of job-creation . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch socioeconomic model -- countries are too different for italy . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his trade union connections , as well as his working-class rapport , to reach a social pact aimed at delivering sustained improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse . emulating the dutch job-creation experience provides the surest path to alleviating poverty in brazil .
nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills the functions of a democracy that online activity , however permanent or aggrieved , simply can not . hence , civil-rights marchers in the americas during the 1950s and 1960s often evoked “ meaning ” by our own numbers . in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters were thought that simply following a physical high , ” an appropriate response would have been : “ in fact , occupying public spaces can accomplish a great deal , depending on which occupiers are , and how many they number . ” consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ brought together ” twice as many twitter followers than the national attack almost overnight . by following the eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1,66 million twitter users signaled their support to a stronger firecheck regulation , and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby .
there has been no abrogation of the north american free-trade agreement ( nafta ) . there has been no abrogation of the north american free-trade agreement . thus , when it comes to explanations for the decline of the us dollar over the last year , we are confronted by an embarrassment of riches . the most popular explanation of dollar weakness today is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , failed to deliver what he had promised . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than in predicting future trends .
in short , the recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . some worried , of course , about a collapsing household saving rate ; but few were overly worried . to me , this view explains much better than an orthodox account , why for all money-pumping activity by central banks , commercial banks failed to initiate lending again , and an economic recovery petered out . just as the lenders had not been able to force money on the back of the crisis , so now they can not force heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to seek loans to expand production when markets are flat or shrinking . in one of his recent policy articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays take home form .
the first rule is to have philosophy and stick . extremely successful labor-market governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have done just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model , which later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements have been clear : low free-market economics ( but in the us with low-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social-wage ” increases in medical care and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policy ( along with a liberal , internationalist foreign policy ) . the current alp government , by contrast , has struggled until now to re-create anything as compelling as it is . but there are looking to some essential rules of political survival that have been ignored in australia in recent years , and to spelling it out may well help both the alp and others to remember them .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than a million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs private-sector support for ngos , church groups , and companies to act like sponsors . this will require not just sufficient funding , but also the human and economic capacity to match migrants and their sponsors . in fact , the exodus from war-torn syria was supposed to never again become a crisis . this is where the fifth piece of a comprehensive plan , let alone one that is needed . it was long in the making , easy to foresee and eminently manageable by europe and the international community .
with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for household consumption . a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient houses ; gluttonous cars ; and the stock market declines . it would do the same in a premeditated economy : carbon efficiency would also require the old , inefficient facilities to dump , and additional investment in ways that gdp becomes less carbon-intensive . furthermore , the distributional effects of the green transition are , unfortunately , adverse effects . the problem does not come from using the instrument of prices .
but it also represents an opportunity for the emergence of a new uk-eu partnership . owing to the withdrawal agreement that concluded this past october , a destructive , hard-nosed ” brexit has backfired . from the early stages of the brexit negotiations , the us on the eu ’s 27 member states and the european parliament has not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests , let alone lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our priority was , first and foremost , to secure european citizens ’ rights , including by finding a solution for the people of northern ireland and ireland , for whom negotiations were on peace and stability , not just trade and economies . and , besides , matters could have been far worse .
such was the existentialist worldview of us president and the nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , the longtime advocate of american expansionism : “ war is , in the long run , far better for one ’s soul than its most prosperous peace . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , sunk into two hopeless “ middle east ” wars , received his nobel peace prize with an apologizing for “ only wars . ” the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the us ’s diplomatic charade that it has now for many years . and nothing has attenuated the tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too often produces outcomes only when backed by an exorbitant power .
yet , today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is the last of saudi arabia ’s fears . prime minister alain netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . so fundamental are the changes bound to the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being the writ of islam ’s holiest sites , claimed nothing when us president donald trump has recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , along with egypt ’s , have gone further , embracing security cooperation with israel . at the same time , politics is inching up religion within israel .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to take on europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition in world markets . nobody can say how deep these changes will go , or how fast they will turn europe into a fast-moving lane . no day passes without major european tech headlines ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations perform menrites . in sum , the old continent is all hot . in france , big strategic plays into the hands of banks and fashions ; italy is witnessing its major players positions themselves on the european and the world scale .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules are set a positive example for other eurozone countries . recent studies show that once a government ’s debt-to-gdp burden reaches a threshold perceived as unsustainable , more debt will merely stunt , not spur , economic growth . the eu was right to react decisively to securing europe ’s stability by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing the european financial stabilization mechanism . but it requires all european governments to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore confidence in the markets ’ – and , of their own citizens – confidence . greece ’s debt crisis has been an understandable warning that european policymakers must not let the government ’s debt pile up indefinitely .
it is the kind of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are antagonistic toward ethnic or religious minorities , or on the financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine “ the west ’s true sons and daughters . ” at prewar fascists , the american people were often considered a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as did marxist and freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – individuals whose loyalty was suspected . not considered part of a native russian people ; the jews were assumed to belong in an international cabal , hence to be inherently treacherous . but stalin did not invent this notion .
but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind an attack on america ’s consulate ? “ they ” should n’t come close to the shariah . it should be above the constitution , rather than an article for a referendum . the nature of libya ’s post-revolutions armed islamist forces by no straightforward means do not . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but a common-faith ideological trend , one based on a core belief that armed tactics of all sorts are the most effective – and , in some versions , the most legitimate method of bringing about social and political change .
the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization and israel . in london this month , netanyahu refused at least three times to answer to his questions from israel about his support of a two-state solution . he recently stated that his ultimate aim is to the palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” status that is limited in size and sovereignty . their hope surely dwindled further when they saw the bulldozers arrive in order to prepare the ground for new settlements , rather than an uncommon occurrence . in any case , israel now appears to have dropped the charade .
the euro ’s design flaw in an economic union motivated by politics but expressed by economics was transformed . the structural changes to economies that experienced a sharp decline in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now must be implemented quickly , in crisis , and without the luxury of devaluations . the pain that this policy generates was exposed in protests across the continent and in the bitter implications for many struggling families , young and elderly alike . the pro-europe foundation was , in part , the promise of ever upward prosperity . by then , that promise is severely at issue .
of course , german corporatism did not allow for any such solution : union unions wanted their pay protected wages . the only way to secure them was for the government to pay lip service to the low wage compensation in a high-wage east germany . after all , the problem after all is not with east germany , but rather with the west . if west german reunification had passed back all of these unaffordable restrictions on the free play of markets , the economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would have enjoyed more virtually full employment , the drive for productivity would have been far more aggressive . unification had meant leaving the everybody to gain not just the benefit of western german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also of all disastrously negative institutions : unions , overpaid unemployment , and excessive job insecurity , pervasive regulation .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , has offered a unequivocal veto on an important issue in the middle east peace process . mofaz ’s statement is symptomatic of a perception that is currently deeply rooted not just in the middle east , but also in the united states , just as it is . that notion is of a hegemonic iran that is attempting to dominate the region through an array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad , and finally from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . any return to syria would give rise to an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s borders , and thus be not only politically naïve but irrational .
in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats , checks the house of representatives , and ( filibuster-proof ) senate , had the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 – and so did . obama and his congressional allies had enacted an $ 800 billion of stimulus ” bill that was loaded with programs confined to key democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and publics ; adopted a sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality determines the supreme court this year ) ; imposed massive new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain firms for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at more than world war i alone ; and centralized power ( washington , plus washington , dc ) . the recent election , which followed such a sweeping change in policy direction appeared in 1980 , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending and strengthened the federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . likewise , while the 1988 , 1992 , and the 2000 election were quite consequential , the policy shifts were not nearly as large as they had been in the 1980 ’s and 2008 . stanford – the successful political candidates are trying to implement the proposals on which they ran .
all parties agree that the stability of the international economy is predicated on the rules-based system of global rules . what is disputed is the nature of those rules . developing countries complain about restrictive rules applied to their commodity exports ( garments , agricultural goods , labor services ) , and fear that new demands they confront labor and the environment are intended to undermine their competitiveness . opponents of trade liberalization condone secretiveness and “ undemocratic ” nature of the wto and the influence of corporate interests in rule-making . they see a trading system that privileges business over labor , the environment , and consumer safety .
most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy , to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way . but , having fought for freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob argues , namibia needs to defend the liberties it won . furthermore , geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from demands for favors from companies and other interest groups . not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fishing – are renewable ; the government is working hard to preserve and enhance them .
gordon ’s vulnerability is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . · “ both the first two revolutions required some 100 years for a full effect on percolate through the economy . · “ the inventions of ir # 2 ” were so important … that they took an full 100 years to have their primary effect . consider the following four phrases in his paper : · “ at worst it had taken 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects .
the first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . that may be the right response if the inflows and upward pressure on the exchange rate are driven by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . but , in many cases , inflows are driven by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance that may lead to an overvalued currency , float against a non-traditional export sector or import-competing sectors , loss of competitiveness , and eventually large current-account deficits , and thus tighter external constraints to growth . given all this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to inflows that will inevitably drive their exchange rates and pose a threat to export-led growth . the first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . that problem is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any renminbi appreciation .
moreover , the fall in unemployment largely reflects persistently gloomy labor-market conditions that have discouraged many employees from remaining in the labor force . if the labor-force participation rate were to be 66 % , as it was in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it was in december 2013 , the us unemployment rate would have been just over 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . yes , there has been some progress on recovery . plunging debt service is largely the outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as the stock of us debt remains excessive , consumers are dismiss declining interest expenses as nothing more than a temporary subsidy from the fed .
countries facing fiercest budget battles are by the eu , the eu , the united kingdom , and america , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the amr offensive . upon office , he entrusted budget forecasting to a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any sleight-of-hand opportunity . he then announced a bold fiscal-consolidation program to cut the us cyclically-adjusted deficit to 1.5 % of gdp annually , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . but , while he likes to put her voice ahead , he behaves with prudence : today ’s german fiscal adjustment is , in reality , very gradual .
indeed , the demilitarization of sinai is one of the crucial components of the stability of egypt ’s peace with israel . other large and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subject to limitations on their acquisition of some of their weapons and military installations . what sense would it force them to return the millions of palestinians , whose character and symbols are foreign to them , a state in which the majority belongs to another ethnic group ? similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees to claim a right of return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and only . are they going back to homes and farms that no longer exist ?
among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from ever gaining full power , blocking any criminal charges that could be brought under attack from him . the constitutional changes demanded by renzi ’s yes campaign to approve voters would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s legacy , a legacy that serves as a prime example of the damage right-wing populism can to italy ’s country . renzi ’s proposed reforms would , among other things , modernize the political system through disempowering the senate ( parliament ’s upper house ) . in austria , voters will choose between a pro- and an anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer , of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for seehofer could add wind to le pen ’s sails .
as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , in china ’s heightened readiness to compromise with certain domestic protestors , rather than treating all forms of collective action as subversive , can be viewed as reflecting a growing sense of safety . conversely , some of china ’s most worrying moves can be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider the harsh treatment of the gadfly critic liu xiaobao , who was sentenced to 11 years in an air of bt charges of “ subversion ” for initiating an internet petition drive championing civil liberties . would a genuinely self-confident ruling elite have proved so skittish about its activism ? still , it is important to remember that a positive aspect emerges to party self-confidence .
but debates about competition and fair trade again demonstrate widespread intellectual poverty and the inequity of trade negotiations . but it makes a big difference whether a good is produced either at home or abroad . antidumping laws seek to secure fair trade by preventing goods from being sold at the price . within the developed world , concerns about such behavior have long been raised – so-called “ predation features ” – and well-defined standards have evolved . with globalization a natural basis for extending such principles to the international arena , making it irrelevant whether the producer is domestic or foreign-owned when judging whether he is engaged in abusive trade practices .
but the start treaty ratification proceeds nowhere rapidly in america ’s senate , and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test treaty to ban produce fissile material for a nuclear weapon ; strengthening the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect ; and discouraging the treaty walk-outs ; reaching agreement on some form of international administration of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , most important , launching negotiations on some form of international administration , involving the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , most serious rounds of disarmament , involving the nuclear talks , not the eight or more nuclear-armed states . arms control and disarmament are the grinding , unglamorous , business that yields scant quick returns . with domestic issues and re-election anxieties dominating most political agendas , all of the more easy commitment to the wane . yet there are several major contributions that less-powerful states and leaders alike , as well as the civil-society organizations , can make . if this is to be avoided , continued management from a summit – most importantly , from the likes of obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – will prove indispensable .
i had just toured those cells : it ’s literally impossible to kill yourself within them . their interiors resemble the inside of a smooth diet jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold down ; there ’s no bedding that one could use to strangle oneself . “ this was an inquiry , ” he replied , “ so too . ” this “ apparent suicide ” seemed , at once , suspicious . the army screened up its army .
decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of the relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries . moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , unodc is working with the international community to develop a more explicit and accurate picture of the problem . this includes examining the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing related risk factors , such as the prevalence of drugs and alcohol use . but collecting data is just one step toward closing loopholes to criminal laws and overcoming gaps in prevention policies . in south africa , for example , an unodc has established three centers ( in masmalanga , an eastern cape , and a northern cape ) that offer legal counsel and health-care care to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence .
a key driver of increased ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon such sovereign bonds offer . adding to the attractiveness of emerging-market sovereign securities ’ portfolios , its returns are not perfectly correlated with equity returns . such findings are not invitation to embrace indiscriminately risk taking into account . beyond returns history itself , there is the fact that emerging and developing economies now account for around two thirds of global gdp , compared to just over one-third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost an entirely domestic affair . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have been increasing in response to america ’s recent court judgements .
either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagflation . but higher home prices keep rising , the further falling , and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage comes at a time when a credit bubble deflates . in countries where recourse loans allow borrowers to walk off mortgages when their value exceeds that on home , the us housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises . in countries ( for example , sweden ) , where recourse loans allow seizure of household income to enforce payments on home mortgages , private consumption may plummet as debt payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowds out discretionary spending . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the recent housing-market train wreck .
but the arab world is divided over how to address the sudden rise in iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned iran about the dangers of a potential collapse in iraq , and is now finding itself in unequal face-off with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia needs to confront iran , confront sunni arab interests , and become a ready regional power . other saudis believe that confrontation will lead only to broader wars and urge dialogue and accommodation . in this view , the american rather than iran has produced the region ’s current problems .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at last month ’s g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations ; but the path to completing a trade war remains far from clear . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , trump could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , the two leaders reached a similar agreement at their previous g20 summit – in buenos aires last december , and those talks ultimately failed – not least because trump mistook china , with its conciliatory stance on weakness . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
but risk takers have every incentive to try their luck again , knowing that at worst they will be bailed out . after asked to choose between a risk of knowing to posterity as a central banker who let the system collapse , and an intangible future benefit of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take genius to predict the central banker ’s resolve . even as the authorities insist that the next time will be different , everybody knows that they will make the same type of decision when confronted with the same choice again . so , knowing that next time wo n’t be different , the authorities are trying their best to prevent at some point in the future . to be sure , democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are both economically or politically crucial , such as in finance or real estate , allowing them to privatize gains and socialize losses .
but , in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what might increasingly matter are transport costs , which implies that geography may create deep regional inequalities . while such disparities may , of course , have other causes as well , geography seems to explain much . among the large inland countries , including india and brazil , only china has a small segment of the coastlines but vast maritime regions . first , this explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and faster after the country embarked on market-oriented reforms and opened up to the world . when the main object of human consumption was food , that was not the problem , because what mattered was land and water .
as a result , careful calculations about the impact of mortgage reductions on aggregate demand ( which the us and johnson and soros have not ) fail to divest from their claims : extra spending per dollar of relief was probably less than a dime on a us dollar of government resources expiration . the idea that some version of soros ’s plan would actually speed up growth is speculative , at best . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in the summer of 2009 , it would be difficult or impossible to get additional money on the troubled asset relief program . that leaves aside a further lesson gained from experience ; that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be very passive in terms of increased lending . most of the benefit of lax mortgage reduction flows to consumers only in time .
because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easily revised ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict harm on the economy . in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of around 2 % to provide a price-stability “ anchor ” for economies . rising prices reduce the value of saving and incomes , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , encouraging hoarding , and increasing the real debt-burdened burden . keynes ’s dictum has become the dominant wisdom of monetary policy ( one of its few to survive ) . governments , following conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices with little bias toward inflation to spur “ animal spirits ” of either businessmen and shoppers .
margaret thatcher has always been the opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . british hostility to that objective has become increasingly fierce , owing to the fact that john major had lost his tory majority in parliament and fallen under the ranks of anti-europeans within her own party . in law , britain may be able to avoid unwelcome developments within the eu because the union is based on the treaty ; as a rule , the british have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , then , the british have already lost that power because they had requested and won , the right to opt out of participating in emu . today , the british seem an insuperable barrier to attainment by the others of a more integrated eu .
princeton – democracy everywhere , by contrast , is confronted with a profound challenge . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and the people ’s bank of china has lost its luster . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primaries in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to overthrow established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , france has been fueling a vision of recovering national sovereignty as a campaign to leave the eu . europeans are traceable to their malaise to a democratic deficit in europe .
but , again , there is no superior alternative at all . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for re-profiling . persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so in light of recent court rulings in the united states , which strengthen the hand of holdout investors . given uncertainty over the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . to avoid the exciting markets , this would have to be strictly voluntary .
racked by sectarian violence and civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage its water resources . in times of scarcity , it is the refugees most likely to be among the first to feel the effects . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to the bare minimum – a decision that affects the millions of people with their already enduring scorching temperatures . at the rukban , a refugee camp on jordan ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 people each receive barely five liters a day for cooking , drinking , and washing . the situation in yemen is similarly grim .
first , jgbs ’s volume has soared relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold roughly ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will be exceeded in roughly 3-5 years by jgbs ’s value . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed by taxpayer assets . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditure , as their pension and health-care costs rise . and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the household saving rate alone will decline dramatically , making it more difficult for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits .
a peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage a conflict and a difficult choice for independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle these matters through talk rather than fighting . one key decision facing serbia and its new institutions is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague . things have been moving forward recently in yugoslavia , much of it surprising . after some procrastination and the initial failed attempt , milosevic has been arrested without bloodshed , if not dangerous . these are big steps forward , and show that , despite the brainwashed and the complicity of many serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , democracy and the open society have a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia .
on the contrary , it should be allowed to build support for the ecb ’s independence . as political pressure on central banks – including the ecb – increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , when needed , publicly naming and shame . this does not mean that a ecb president should pick up the fight whenever it is possible . a good central banker must say no to politicians . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed indispensible .
but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its fundamental goals . it took until last summer to recognize it as , and even then to little more than modest levels – that it could use that aid to promote economic recovery . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , is not simply venture beyond macroeconomics . europe ’s ultimate flaw was a kind of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . greece might , in essence , have relied on large amounts of regional development aid from a european budget that had been underutilized , owing to the lack of local co-financing .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s debt crisis are all too present across much of the european union , as the distressed economies attempting to stabilize and grow at the same time . reform and consolidation measures are being implemented throughout the eu as a whole . joint financial backstopping have been put on hold . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand by europe . notwithstanding the significant decisions taken over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do even more to address the challenges facing the eurozone .
yet the financial sector has proved that it can operate as a public good by providing trustworthy , efficient service . in the future , client-services and transaction-management systems will receive more input from customers from more frequently , meaning that product designs are being shaped interactively . yet the rise of interactive social-networking has made a more bottom-up problem for financial innovation . with a population of 1.4 million users using cell phones , millions of products using cell phones can provide instant feedback on which the products and services they like or dislike . current strategy within the financial sector drives excess competition by raising market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customer to inject short-term gains .
today ’s ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only due to a revolt against the empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread aversion to the notion that the chief function of modern states is to second their peoples in a global market dominated by efficiencies and cheapness , heedless of the damage to non-economic activities . accordingly , the unraveling of multinational nation-states is a false route . that feeling reinforces , once the global economy turns into a global casino . the way forward lies in a democratic form of governance that can preserve sufficient central authority for purposes of statehood while respecting local and regional cultures .
still , one is right to wonder whether the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century , and if it does , whether it will survive in america or relocate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw many – especially many of china – as passing on the torch . if there is some continuity worth underscoring , it is the periodic cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass has always been about half of full and now half that – and a half out of hand . at the same time , pessimists have been saying so for a long time . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators will continue to insist that the americans never really have that good .
paris – while undeniably more beautiful , paris was at risk of becoming the new rome , a captive of its past glories , at best a seat on a visit , but not the eu . but , even as those uncertainties are playing out , the two countries are engaging in a kind of zero-sum shifts of emotion that is impossible to ignore . in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could readily sense the distinct differences between the two cities . london has been bursting by dynamism , and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of political multiculturalism . nowadays , confidence has been sucked out of britain by social and political upheaval , rising terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future .
besides investing huge amounts of money , they are holding futures contracts long enough that might make them less likely to respond to changing market fundamentals . these speculative investments may impede the trend further , pushing futures prices further away from market equilibrium , especially if many investors follow suit or those investing with enough funds to seek market influence . in fact , empirical evidence yields no clear answer regarding which hypothesis is correct . indeed , empirical evidence yields without a clear answer on which hypothesis is correct . index funds provide an example of just as powerful investors . they became market-fundamentalist players , holding about 25-35 % of all industrial futures .
president george w. bush is endangering the united states and the world ’s security , while undermining american values . president bush was endangering the american and world security , while undercutting american values . for opposing him , i was demonized by the bush campaign . if re-elected , a bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the invasion of iraq – would be sustained , leaving the world to live with repercussions . president bush ran in 2000 on a platform promising a “ humble ” us foreign policy .
new york – the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only the millions of people , but also the social institutions that had allowed shape life around us . since then , stability and hope have started to return to a region plagued by war destruction and widespread desperation for medical displacement . the balkan stability pact of 1999 and massive international support helped rebuild local education , while the development of innovative vocational training and education systems that were supposed to boost long-term employment . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s disconnects and the wars of succession that have followed annihilated large parts of serbia ’s traditional education and vocational training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . the results from many projects in these countries are invigorating , with the simultaneous focus of training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and unemployed .
in a middle east so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally important state , rather than a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions exceed what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest . thus , two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s people , who showed that they understand the challenges they faced ; and another by their new president , who had assembled the best team available to commit an exceedingly difficult program . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake up the only someone who is slumping , rather than someone else pretending to fall asleep . ” whether iran , the international “ interlocutors ” behave on the significance of rouhani ’s election , is a matter of choice rather than ignorance . there can be no path out of the middle east ’s agony without participation , commitment , and determination from every party .
nairobi – with unemployment climbing , bankruptcies climbing , bankruptcies , and stock markets in free-fall , it may seem sensible , at first glance , to ditch the fight against climate change and place environmental investments on hold . but this would be a disruptive mistake of immediate , just like intergenerational , proportions . far from burdening an already over-stressed , over-extended global economy , ecological investment is exactly what is required to bring people back to their jobs , get order books flow out , and assist in powering economies back into health . in the past , environmental concern was viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity , grasped by a certain – but , by no means , of all – economic architects . a large slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes expansion of renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” one million homes , and upgrading his country ’s inefficient electricity grid .
but we are not happy with an unemployment rate that results from an abrupt fiscal crisis . for morale , we need a social compact that finds purpose for everyone ; a way to show oneself to be a part of society by being a worker of some kind . we could perhaps all rejoice at working fewer hours if the drop reflected gradual societal progress . and for that we need fiscal stimulus , ideally at a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures on an equal footing . that is why sudden austerity can not be a morale retired .
that federal legislation , enacted in june 2016 , also created a oversight board with the fiscal decision-making authority of the american commonwealth . these decisions will determine which policies will be feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects , and thus how much it can pay for its creditors . at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must include an understanding that just when today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is required . at the same time , the restructuring process started on may 3 , when the boj filed a petition to the federal court . but so far many critical decisions have been taken , such as about how much overall debt relief will be provided and how the “ haircut ” will be distributed among holders of various kinds of bonds .
the european union is even more instructive today because centuries of war , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century ’s two world wars , inspired rather than deterred , europe ’s economic , political , and security integration . with goodwill on all sides can materialize from building up this informal grouping , for it is a gateway to the vast markets of southeast and northeast asia . an economic bonus of such an effort throughout the region would come from opening to outright slumps and maritime transportation routes across the taiwan strait . ceagpol could even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean , the “ association of northeast asian nations . ” owing to historic suspicions among china , japan and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the modern remaining regional bloc that still lacks the intergovernmental organization of asean ’s likes .
even in europe and the united states , higher-level working-class officials typically earn much less than individuals with comparable skill and responsibility in the formal sector . even some honest officials may become disillusioned and surrender to many temptations to use illicit means , so that they can raise their incomes to levels that they deem more convenient to their responsibilities and practice . several years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article proposing ways to reduce malfeasance among government employees . we suggested , among other things , that officials in vulnerable and important positions get higher , rather than comparable , workers receive in the private sector . in every nation , many government officials are highly dedicated and exuded , but low pay attracts into the state service of some rotten apples who are ready to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and the annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security and dominated headlines . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global human-rights framework and humanitarian law are on trial stage . yet the current rules-based international system , long on its own , remains most seriously threatened by the syrian civil war . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian towns , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of a “ “ with syria ” campaign . now those risks are probably overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with confrontations within the un security council threatening to subordinate syria to international problems .
that , too , is true for its financial parameters . even so , the principle is undoubtedly right : universities must be set free . there is an additional feature , to be sure , that many institutions of higher education have skills , which they can use to balance inequities . there is an additional feature , to be sure , that many institutions of higher education have the sdgs , which they may be able to use to balance inequities . for a variety of reasons , public and private donations are collectively pooled .
but , rather than picking facts and stories to fit some of the vast narrative of failure or progress , we should try to compare every area of human existence to see whether the world really does better or even worse . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i tried to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all answered the same question : what accounted for the relative costs of this problem in each year since 1900 , all means toward 2013 , with predictions to reach 2050 . applying the classic economic valuations of everything from lost lives , poor health , and illiteracy to wetlands destruction and heightened hurricane damage , economists show how big each problem costs . to estimate the size of the problem is compared to the total resources available to fix it .
but there is a policy prescription available to leaders today that could help remove supply-side bottlenecks : more trade . this proposal may puzzle some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . trade is the via , say , an transmission belt , through which delivery adjusts to demand . it allows the food to travel from plentiful lands . clearly , for the medium - and long term , investment in food production must increase as well as in food production .
with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform now threatening to engulf america ’s economy . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . instead , the swamp has grown wider and deeper . but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a larger gift to us corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had predicted . it avoids the needed reforms and would leave a run-of-the-mill country ; the consequences , however , low investment , stalled productivity growth ; and yawning inequality , would take decades to undo .
the fed ’s 2008 transcripts revealed that its leaders saw such a world . yet finance may fail in a number of ways ; the lehman collapse is just one . in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation will appear effective . if this cycle is even about right , regulatory fatigue from battling to make finance safer will soon turn into the regulatory confidence that the latest war has now won . it is common for people to update their views of the world with what they have last seen ; if what they see as a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system .
rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s own mental health might never go away , regardless of the steps he is taking to alter his detractors ’ mindsets . modern psychiatrists would argue that they have taken to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment and now make diagnoses far more accurate and rigorously . even if he stops ranting on twitter or speaking in convoluted and incoherent sentences , it is at best what is viewed as “ “ in remissions . ” yet , with the psychotic label already affixed to their files , no matter what they were assumed as a symptom of their insanity . at best , they would have been declared “ in remission . ”
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges that refugees must confront , while waiting for resettlement , finding access to higher-quality physical and mental-health care at the top of the list . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve the quality and quality of health-care provision worldwide , by developing more rapid methods to diagnosing diseases and delivering medical services . at the same time , those contributions are highly relevant to refugees ; indeed , they are potentially relatively new . it is a challenge that demands greater attention not just from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers , who can make indispensable contributions to global public health .
the widespread adoption of today ’s stringent ip protections is also historically unprecedented . for the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime erected tighter barriers against the use of knowledge , often imposing a gap between the social returns on innovation and the return of private return on investment . in fact , the current ip regime is far from sustainable . even among early industrializers , ip protection came very late and frequently eschewed to allow quicker industrialization and growth . the powerful farm lobbies that regime clearly put the latter first , reflected in their opposition to provisions recognizing the intellectual property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity .
throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb against the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) ; but the fed did not intervene on all ( figure 1b ) . this confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . so long as these interests diverge , the us should expect little monetary-policy coordination between the two central banks . despite the advent of the european central bank , that asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb repeatedly attempted to crush dollar appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive interventions in the foreign-exchange market , the fed intervened only once . during that era , the dollar strongly appreciated against the major currencies , and then became overvalued by virtually every measure .
a key argument in favor of such an amendment is that joint participation by the eu would increase europe ’s weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis america . regardless of whether such meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would give a supreme symbolic value : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policymaking . after all , a key reason for european integration has been precisely to give a stronger voice to europe in the international arena . in upcoming g8 meetings ( the world-rich , industrialized countries ’ club plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , the united kingdom , and the uk – will participate both on an individual basis and as members of the european union whose president also attends the eu as a whole . but should n’t the eu possess only a single representative ?
the idea behind a slippery slope is that , when it does x , you end up doing y , which is not . indeed , the two types of slippery slopes are conceptually similar from reproductive cloning . you may slide down a sociological slippery slope from one practice to another , even if the two are conceptually different – simply because the existence of one creates a social climate receptive to another . on the logical slippery slope , you slide toward the bottom , and embrace morally unacceptable , because there is no way to differentiate it from acceptable practice . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning .
the us economy confronts its most severe economic crisis in so many decades . a central bank attempting to hold down the exchange rate , but ultimately is forced to allow the currency to float . soon a devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerable the economy is to a loss of international confidence . abruptly , foreign creditors curtail short-term credit lines . the result is a currency collapse , and a wave of bankruptcies .
the world might not have supported an america engaged in its own unilateral attempt to become global policeman , especially because they may well bring more instability . still , it is important to understand why america is business and that it responds to the fundamental problem of the international order today . similarly , rearguard efforts to establish that those who opposed the war in iraq were both right and wrong , combined with demands for the un that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , are reasonably constructive , and only cause mutual irritation . if the us tried to retain the un security council and the positions of its current permanent members , those actions tended to produce the opposite effect . if the bush administration , as well as those in other nations opposing america 's iraq policy in the security council actually wanted to persuade america not to attack iraq and defend international law , then those policies were doomed to failure .
a change that would have the greatest positive impact is the emergence of a new government in damascus , which was acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . sadly , that appears likely to come about only with the boon of russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to increased their support for syrian president bashar al-assad than to cooperate on his removal . what is clear is that public policy can not succeed if it is focused on the consequences , rather than on the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees per day , volkerwanderung , are entering germany , partly owing to harsh conditions back home , and partly because of germany ’s willingness to take them in . the challenge of care for , employing , or integrating such numbers will soon run up against the limits of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance .
israel also joined nato ’s system of naval control in the mediterranean , contributing to functioning in an active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major us military maneuver – juniper cobra exercises – was implemented to test israel ’s integration into american ballistic missile defense . american sources have described the drill as “ the consummate air-defense system that the us ’ve ever done anywhere in the world . ” it has been a major contribution , they declared , in the development of a planned nato missile shield for europe . both parties seem eager to expand the reach of their partnership , with the goal of achieving high levels of interoperability .
girls are believed to have been split into separate groups , so that any attempt to save one group would imperil others . it is hard to see if girls could be returned safely . launching a military rescue operation would have been a high-risk proposition . despite talk about a government deal with local captors , that option , too , would be fraught with danger . even if all girls eventually do return home , nothing would ever be identical again for them or their families .
an excessive sanctions lead to negative-sum play , in which a borrower can not recover and its creditors benefit from the larger repayment capacity that recovery would entail . three years later , greece is in dire need of a new restructuring . the country has played by the “ rules ” ” ” ” of financial markets and managed to fine-tune the restructuring quickly ; but the deal was bad , and did not help the economy recover . distressed borrowers , in turn , need a fresh start . the absence of the rule of law on debt restructuring delayed fresh start and may lead to chaos .
we would expect to see large numbers of illnesses among the two workers and patients in hospitals where victims treat each other , and soon someone ( perhaps even a non-profit carrier ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza populations are extraordinarily expensive and in short supply . or perhaps they would be sold on the black market to enrich corrupt government officials . history suggests that making these drugs available to poor countries for ring prophylaxis would often be given improperly – such as in suboptimal doses – in ways that encourage viral resistance , and would only exacerbate a pandemic . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would work to wealthy nations to devote resources to the developing world primarily on patent-control .
if migrants gain welfare benefits in addition to wages , more will be lured into coming than necessary , with marginal migrants creating eu welfare losses equal to the benefits . the best solution is to make western labor markets more flexible by opening the system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . but , even with these measures in place , welfare benefits might artificially create an incentive to relocate . given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average income to below-average incomes , such gains are likely even when migrants work and pay tax and welfare contributions . if workfare replace welfare , wages would become more elastic , allowing the eu ’s labor markets to absorb immigrants more effectively .
palestinian authority run the west bank , for fear that a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn a violent victory . if it can , israel might use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly built institutions . palestinian president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . but , with their government unable to do anything about expanding israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over holy sites in hebron , israelis , and the al-aksa mosque , the west bank palestinians are extremely frustrated . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of ongoing opposition to israeli rule .
to avoid such an outcome , li must adjust china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the us and the united states , more pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , aging populations , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and declining import demand in the west , makes reform even more urgent . li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts substantial growth potential , does not sink into lethargy and fall into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” wages will continue to rise , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies , but the growth model is not yet equipped to stimulate the competitiveness of its high-skill industries , leading to wage stagnation . a developing economy can slow anytime soon , when external factors change the conditions supporting growth .
but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not be able simply to swoop and implement his agenda . indeed , with his center-left democratic party holding just 40 % of the parliament ’s 299 seats in the national assembly , he will need to win support from centrist parties , and even the conservative opposition . to succeed , moon will need to review carefully the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the most obvious pitfalls . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , a key problem to consider is the long-term funding burden that such large-scale hiring could generate . moreover , he will need broader public support .
the causes of obesity are complex and popular science about understanding human behavior are embryonic ; but nor is the hyperbole calling the problem the problem . according to united nations disease control and prevention centers , an estimated 18 % of all children aged 6-11 in the us are not only overweight but obese . commercial tv programs targeting children are replete with ad for processed foods with doubtful value for human well-being . the causes of obesity are complicated and the science of understanding human behavior are embryonic ; but they are not the hyperbole that calls the problem . and , for every celebrity who acts time on the battle for obesity , there are as many as a dozen who accept big payments to hawk product lines , like the ultra-sugary beverages that arguably are the tobacco of the us generation .
europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , struggles to solve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player . so , no one , it seems , is in charge . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s states and people are more intertwined than ever with ideas , information , finance , migrants , and issues are flowing increasingly seamlessly across borders . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , struggles to solve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player . so no one , it seems , is in charge .
to be sure , recovery in the uk has begun more slowly than in the other g7 economies , with the possible exception of italy . but there is also little doubt that the uk ’s recovery chose faster after 2012 . indeed , last year , its gdp growth rate was among the highest among the g-7 . and per capita gdp must surely remain preferable to aggregate gdp . according to the imf , it is only the american economy that will grow faster over the next four years , with the united kingdom then regaining lead .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . back in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that , “ religion is a matter for which lies solely between man and his god . ” offering assurances to a group of connecticut baptists who feared their religious liberty , he pointed out that the first amendment of the creation clause and the freedom act built “ the wall of separation ” between the church & state .
but , by overcoming differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and celebrating ebola , the us is reinforcing its support for a world order grounded in a concerted solution to shared problems . bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and calls on relationships built and sustained by events over decades , in addition to alliances with new partners . the us is making progress on both challenges , but much of the work remains . i spoke with more than 50 foreign national leaders in general , and we all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt devastation in west africa and halting ebola ’s spread .
consider the example of the us corporate subsidiary that earns the profits in ireland . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax earnings back to america ’s investing or distribution to its shareholders , it must pay america ’s current corporate tax rate of 35 % on its old pre-tax profits , with a credit of 12 % that it already pays . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in iran , us financial securities , or operating firms anywhere in the world except america . because of this 23 % import penalty , american companies generally choose not to repatriate the earnings of their foreign subsidiaries . that us subsidiary pays iranian corporate tax in ireland , at a rate of low 12 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument to mobilize massive capital operations for investment in infrastructure , research and development , and other essential areas . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” ” europe can secure greater economic autonomy from other powers and start to establish the euro as a global currency . yet the shift toward a carbon-neutral economy also offers far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy in place , europe can boost its own technological innovation and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect europe ’s labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost manufacturing in spain and elsewhere . the issue fails to observe national borders and , therefore , require collective global action .
partly in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced “ reserve-currency ” capitalism that had generated spectacular economic progress . and , like the economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . india today sees that the wider world , particularly the west , regards it with its growing respect , not just to the country ’s performance , but also to its essence as a young country , and which is an ancient civilization as well . a slightly more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the soviet empire . fifty years ago , seeking to read about india in the west , one would tend to find books about spirituality .
and , as the world becomes a less stable power , we europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend our own interests . what we will have in the end is a power vacuum that is being marked by chaos . a careful analysis of merkel by words shows that she has not been questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she has been calling for a stronger europe . merkel knows that if america sacrifices its place at the summit on international order for domestic political reasons , it will be neither replaced by a new leadership power nor a new global order emerge .
there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party is simply losing control of the country . the bottom line is that questions like “ are the us creating too much inequality ” can not even be asked on the part of china . the upshot is that whenever a problem gets out of hand , a turnaround comes too late and is dramatic . this is why china may not shelve the problem as part of its transition to democracy . democracy is n’t just a mechanism to help prevent strategic mistakes ; it is an important step in the future .
less spectacularly , albeit perhaps more important in the long run , ecowas lays the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of the single currency now a stated goal . indeed , a number of exciting practical moves in this direction are under way , though not all are pursuing the original regional course set by their respective founders . in south africa , the south african development community ( ecowas ) , after a shaky start , pushes ahead with joint projects , of which transport infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly demonstrated both the willingness and the capacity to raise fighting force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . meanwhile , east african countries are pushing ahead with integration projects , and seem to have learned from the region ’s past failures , implied by hastily constructed , improper , and overly ambitious structure .
but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany already punches against one another . the european central bank ( ecb ) appears more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into insolvency than in promoting higher employment . with private-sector demand stalling , an employed employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . so where is this demand-driven growth ? unless a future government is bold enough to break the pact off , its sole alternative will be increased taxes , which would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand , which has kept the unemployment high .
new york – in his remarkable apology to iranian catholics ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests have been tempted by violent acts with children . it has been the result of “ new ” and serious challenges to the beliefs that result from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . and ireland is not the only places where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . fast-paced social change have followed , often adversely affecting individuals with their traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . as we know all too well , exploitation of children by catholic clerics has occurred not only in iran , but in many other countries as well , something the pope favored not to dwell upon .
egypt ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional disregard for the sinai peninsula . last august , israelis authorized an additional number of battalions and 20-tank canned in zone c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought additional troops up , and did not even bother to transport the tanks across the suez canal . historically , it deployed just 70-80 % of 22,000 soldiers that the treaty allows in zone a. and the military has never established regional command in sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report on their superiors scattered around cairo and its hindu shi'a . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may be seeking to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in the ground .
their home page depicts a smiling young managing director based in chile , as well as a company pushing to enlist women in palestinian territories – not for ideological reasons but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . perhaps 30 % of women in many middle eastern countries have university degrees by as much as zaleski explains , but often can not get the jobs commensurate with their cultural training . not surprisingly , given such a model , many men want to participate as well . indeed , the founders do n’t exclude the expansion in order to address that needs . with powertofly ’s technological capacity to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the highest levels to an american company , even though local laws prohibit her car from driving .
but , in italy , one man , mario monti , already makes the difference . so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe , and his position is fragile and already challenged , but there is a positive near-consensus that has enabled italy to launch long-overdue structural reform . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship is returning to europe , even if in homeopathic doses . it is too early to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as president of france . of course , no one elected monti , and his position is fragile and already contested ; but there is a positive near-consensus that has enabled him to launch long-overdue structural reform .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
children whose families can not provide a decent start in life deserve help , too . but america did not provide this – a point recently made by jean bush , a prominent contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination . many of these decisions had proved badly wrong , largely because information technology ( computers and how it is used ) eliminated many middle class jobs . moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , prolonged periods of joblessness for parents have had severe and persistent negative effects on their children . increasing trade globalization has also not helped in this respect .
yet governments need to make clear the investment barriers : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technology . all too often , they spend money supporting private-sector projects that fail to yield a positive return for the broader economy . and they need to follow rigorous cost-benefit analyses , in order to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that promotes productivity growth . it is here – at a level of execution that governments often perform poorly . action in most european countries should also consider doing business .
moreover , animals consume more food than they produce . and clearing land for pasture releases of carbon dioxide at a staggering pace . this trend has grave implications for the agriculture of the environment . here is where the connection between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty – just like many – demands more meat and dairy . cows release large volumes of heat-trapping methane .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansionary mandate . the leaders of these organizations must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . for starters , they must balance the fight against poverty and hunger against efforts to advance gender equality , increase access to schooling , or tackle corruption . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lifting people out of poverty and promoting sustainable development . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , the central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have been working for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have oversaw the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – the europe ’s established left is confronting the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic casualties in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of its traditional working class . but one of the most fundamental reasons is as grim as it is : europe ’s voters have grown more opposed to immigration and do not trust the left to limit it . on a continent long defined by center-right and center-left democratic competition , the collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond particular party interests .
it would enhance america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world as well . america is expected to become self-sufficient in 2020 and become an oil exporter until 2030 . at the same time , it would reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s major strategic rival , china , which is becoming increasingly dependent on middle eastern energy supplies . this scenario would provide america ’s three enormous advantage to the us .
in most western european countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing income divide and other indices among some affluent cities that benefit from globalization – with the rest of the country as a whole . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a thing of the us national leader chanting tax cuts based on where one lived . the gap between their objective analysis of reality and government policies has become a chasm . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp is now re-allocated to the poorest parts of the country . traditional parties might have also learned something from listening to voters directly , rather than through media filters and pollsters .
let ’s assume that the experience of a visit or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would have been over that time – which , in effect , would have meant an extra hour spent in notre dame , or , for denunciations of one ’s visit , is as good as broadening someone ’s own life by another hour . for , as a result , how many lives have already been had to be worth ? suppose that we would save the lives of individuals living 60 more years ; the $ 9,000 year-old annual benefit is equivalent to saving another $ 150 lives a year . whatever the gilets jaunes might advocate , it would have been obvious that we could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in low - or middle-income countries than we could by spending it in france . that ’s a substantial amount of human lives , but one now has to ask : at every dollar spent per year could save us .
on september 20 , germany ’s government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) for carbon-emission reductions . spending on priorities like energy and the environment can probably be useful . in fact , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to reducing carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 to achieve the 2015 paris climate agreement ’s goals as a battering ram against the schwarze null . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals does not have to mean larger budget deficits . in the us , such a package would have been called the greennew deal .
any economist who seems to question the benefits of trade openness risk banishment , so let me be clear : i question the standard versions of gains-from-trade theory , but the extravagant , unfounded claims made about the consequences of openness . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of a true article because it unleashes expectations unlikely to be met . in the real world , “ opening up ” is not an straightforward matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment . it entails placing heavy doses of institutional reform that consumes finance , bureaucratic , and political resources . while many institutional reforms are development-friendly , they might not focus on key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capabilities , poverty alleviation – and smooth out attention from them .
to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , seas must be rigorous , credible , and transparent . this is because , as it stands , technical specialists typically behave seas at behest of project developers – a practice that , as activists emphasized repeatedly , is grossly unethical . with the assessors frequently upsetting their conclusions on only a superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects are frequently agreed , despite failing to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidelines . this means that they must be carried out by well-regulated , unbiased professionals . but , as the examples cited above expose , seas are not fulfilling their purpose reliably .
prior to the crisis , regulatory agencies focused specifically on removing trading barriers , and in general favored measures that made markets more fulminated by fostering faster , cheaper trading through a broader set of financial claims . that is no longer the case , but even more so . still , there are signs that such assumptions are currently being discussed . on the contrary , nowadays , many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere the public good . might such ease , and efficiency do not also fuel market instability and serve middlemen ’s interests rather than their customers ?
following the strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for the violence might be prosecuted . and xinhua wasted no time in claiming that such abuses were limited to a handful of towns . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for the violence might be prosecuted . central authorities , however , did little to halt the intimidation of linyi ’s villagers .
overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger an abrupt reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages – as occurred in japan in 1997 and 2008 – straining asian banks and corporations . they also undercut asian economies ’ need for stronger financial-safety nets . tighter american monetary policies could intensify a global credit shortage , raising pressure on asia ’s economic and financial system . the 2008 global financial crisis revealed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , because failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily on emerging asian economies . such risks explain why the fed ’s own mere suggestion of a potential shift toward lowering its purchases of long-term asset purchases ( so-called quantitative easing ) caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer .
this , in part , explains enduring popular devotion to rulers like joseph stalin . for many russians , if not a majority , the authority figure embodies the powers that control everything in life matters ; backing him , regardless of the policies he implements , because there is no possibility that he does not do otherwise . now , however , both delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . the question today is not about the outcome of next year ’s us presidential election ; that has already been set . with a presidential term now stretching back to six years , we can expect a fraternal enduring 12 years – longer than putin ’s own original performance .
the other major shortcoming was that leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , proved to be a feckless and irresponsible president . initially , he traveled the world for months to celebrate his victory , ignoring the mayhem back home . he then started vetoing practically all of his government ’s decision , triggered by a political stalemate , and , with the end of his presidency , tacitly allied himself with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , had voted against the constitution ) . the old regime ’s adherents may more readily rut newcomers to dangerous compromises if the process is exceedingly swift . but , while yushchenko did serve as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with excessive powers , the underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakup was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko appointees ) had been defectors from the old regime .
it embodied the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in indian hands , rather than at the hands of indians seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather through an disinterest state , its father , and mother to every indian citizen . given this thinking , performance was not an important criterion for judging the public sector ’s utility . the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public services as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still lingers . indian-style socialism was the compound of nationalism and “ idealism ” in the past . inefficiencies were disguised with generous national treasuries and a combination of vested interests by socialist ideologues , bureaucratic executives , trade unions , and monopolies kept it beyond political criticism .
but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connections and engagement , not algorithms or ai-enabled software . technologies on their own can not stimulate democracy , helping to answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by boosting accountability . for organizations without clout – as well as digital revenues – from time to time , a “ people-oriented ” approach may also require securing investment . potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is as noble a cause as , say , tobacco-research . with the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly apparent , a growing number of media leaders – near one-third , according to the reuters institute survey – believe that meeting future foundations and non-profits – will play a central role in supporting news media .
a possible key to reciprocal confidence would be for the democrats to hold a critical finance ministry , while m5s appoints its prime minister . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . the pro-eu italy , governed by a m5s-democrat coalition , could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; reclaim a clear foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis america , russia , and spain ; and implement a green-, innovation-led growth strategy . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s entirely reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , has rushed to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition that he has called the eu ’s “ ultimate dream , ” because it would subvert the eu . to forge such a coalition would have to enact a accountable and explicit economic program , and democrats would have to accept as the junior partner of the untested insurgent force .
my statements were also motivated by issues with how capital punishment is carried out in india . the us supreme court announced that capital punishment should be applied only at the rate of “ rarest of the rare ” ” cases . and , indeed , the latest three executions in poland stemmed from terrorist offenses that were threatened or taken large lives . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains highly subjective . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted out depends on several variables , beginning with judicial and social biases .
while that time , the gains presumably will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and scope of the fed ’s tightening , the interest it pays on its savings will move household income in the right direction : up . the long-term implications should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound saving . during the latest tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , us households ’ ’ interest income rose by 29 % . and average hourly wages for every employee on private non-farm payrolls posted an annual growth rate of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families hold their hard-won savings at a bank will at last start realizing some return on their deposits .
beijing – much of the western media have characterized the recent 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as the clean power play , with chinese president xi jinping entrenching his hold on power . for xi , this ends a smooth transition into modernity , which cements the cpc ’s longstanding authority and secured its own legacy as modern china ’s most important leader . but the accumulation of political capital in this scenario is a means to an end . xi knows that if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , it will need to manage a deftly important social and economic transformation , with even more important implications for improving state governance . and , to secure china ’s long-term survival in its one-party system , he must reform state and party institutions ; indeed , it is political reform for xi that is a prerequisite for economic reform .
after all , dire conditions today tend to be the fruit of staggering corruption and waste in the last 40 years . at their best , our design might fundamentally improve the quality of our public institutions , thereby transforming economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . but , even with all the difficulty of corruption and inefficiencies that doubtless plague their actual performance , our design runs far beyond the status quo . the time to act , then , is now . another question is how much income should be shifted and how transfer can be effected in a country as large , complex , and funded jointly as nigeria .
recent turmoil in asian markets raises hard questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and lack of financial information that can not be ignored . fragility of the financial markets can produce severe economic and social dislocations . the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ? this can not be answered in the abstract , for each situation is different . after all , financial markets are best understood as an historical process , and history never seem to repeat itself .
screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented major epidemics elsewhere . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist , or that the virus will eventually be reintroduced into human populations from animal animals . health officials worldwide should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that renewed male control efforts will be necessary if sars resurges . indeed , the experience of sars in toronto , where cases are escaping detection and leading to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about apparent control in the greater and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . indeed , these epidemics may have been completely eradicated in the coming months .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to launch an parallels with the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum for addressing transparency in resource revenues , while discouraging the wheel in the process . the eiti still has a long track record of gone , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles that is available to achieve a global standards of disclosure and accountability . nor have the us and britain used their strength in iraq to advocate for transparency in their oil sectors . looking ahead , let us hope that the new iraq government does a better job . it is hard to see how democracy can take root when a country ’s most important income source remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam .
joyce karam , the us washington post ’s chief of the pan-arab newspaper al-raat , believes that this is because “ muslims kill muslims or the arab killing of arab people ” seem more acceptable than israel slaughter arabs . this is not to say that israel should be consoling by macabre ’s arithmetic about carnage . stories about israel are focusing almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are euro-faceless ; the lionization of the resulting incomparably fewer gazan victims makes them unique . there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined .
spearheaded by concerned about aids , activists around the world demanded that something be done . even the imf now recognizes that capital-account liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability to a number of developing countries . still , whether fueled by narrow ideology or by responding to demands from special interests is the bush administration still demanding an extreme form of such liberalization in its bilateral trade deals . the second issue concerns the unbalanced intellectual-property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . these clauses had restricted countries from making generic imitation drugs , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries .
such efforts are vital to reach the targets outlined at the 2015 paris climate agreement . now that the cap is coming into force , we will soon benefit from the extraordinary impact of a new , sustained global health dividend . we can expect to see figures emerge in the years ahead indicating reduced health-care costs and improved education outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , governments will be collaborating on extra measures to reduce the environmental and climate consequences of the global ocean trade system . as matters stand , the shipping sector – ranked alongside countries – is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its capacity to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives throughout the world thus might seem interested in learning the four tricks that america ’s politicians commonly use when promising to cut taxes while simultaneously cutting budget deficits . these are hard promises to keep borrowing , for the simple reason that its budget deficit equals government spending minus tax revenue . yet , over three decades , each of the four tricks has been refined . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the laffer hypothesis ; and the “ starve the beast ” scenario .
the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments bail out the biggest banks rather than allow them to collapse and damage the economy . second , and even worse , being too big to fail helps the big banks to grow even larger as lenders and their trading partners prefer to work with banks with an implicit government guarantee . so which is this right : are the banks still operating at risk ? or , in some cases , has the post-crisis regulatory reform already been doing its job ?
while it may not be able to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration offering additional support to the region , on a status that the countries demanded by the region . the alliance ’s primary objective must be to ensure that it is steps forward . participants in chicago will have major differences over these issues , and the outcomes may not be ideal . but reinventing nato is a long-term process and will necessarily emerge in small steps .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer by training , is often described in the international “ center-right ” press . but that label is not quite wrong , but it is in the past . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” in the european sense . in argentina , the left-right divide has long been blurred by policies of the french-headed perónist justicialist party that privatized state firms in the 1990s just to nationalize them later . moreover , the “ center-right ” often implies “ conservative , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and macri ’s triumph will not “ conserve ” ” ” the status quo .
we have also learned that only 20-40 % of the breast cancers that clutch in families originate with the brca1 or brca2 germline mutations , genetic alterations that occur from the birth of each body ’s cells , and can be transmitted to offspring . women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene are carrying a life ’s lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancer , while increased risk of developing a ovarian cancer is roughly 55 % for women with brca1 mutations , and about 25 % for brca2 mutations . most recently , enormous studies analyzing effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , breast-cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation carriers have identified so-called modifier snp figures that may lower , or enhance individual lifetime risk . in most cases of the familial breast cancer , however , the genetic predisposition remains elusive . most recently , enormous studies analyzing influences for single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , breast-cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation carriers have identified so-called modifier snp , leukemias , leukemias ,
xi ’s government struggles to maintain domestic stability , as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-oriented economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . in seeking to lead the next phase of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy . the primacy of this domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to lead in global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem stems from china ’s own incomplete transition on the world stage . after prevailing in world war ii , america immediately and undeniably dominated the globe .
and staying below the 1.5 ºc limit will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue fever cases annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk from malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutrition causes of higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . costa rica is proud to lead the world by putting this approach into practice . our commitment to tackling climate change rests on understanding the enormous health risks and costs that arise from inaction . as a result , we are one of the few countries prepared to exceed our commitments under the paris climate agreement . costa rica ’s devotes significant resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our humans remain our most vital asset .
there is now real hope that talks along these lines could succeed . but there is a major obstacle to an easing of tension : the proposed $ 6.5 billion in sales by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . china-america ’s defensive cooperation talks have stalled earlier , owing to such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch sent to the obama administration . fostering china ’s traditional civilization with strengthened spiritual ties is what used to be .
and ignatieff has received some backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called “ ceu law , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” by which the ecb had said was intended to force it out of the country . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff could tell , “ i had the support in washington . ” i had support in berlin , i supported in budapest . now , it is time to get some support in brussels .
most chinese doctors and patients , for example , have long regarded acupuncture as an effective treatment for stroke , as he uses it to improve motor , speaks , and other functions as he has destroyed . more recently , but systematic scholarly studies of acupuncture ’s effects appear to have begun . one survey found that 66 % of chinese physicians use acupuncture routinely to treat the alleged stroke effects , with more than 63 % of physicians surveyed believing that it is effective . some 36 % of chinese doctors believe that acupuncture ’s effectiveness remains dubious , perhaps because the scientific basis for it remains so much new . nearly all trials on acupuncture as the treatment for stroke conducted within china were positive .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , advanced economies ’ central bankers – especially the euro – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets . economists have also had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidity , the artifact of the 1960-70s , when organized labor became much stronger . in fact , falling labor might explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . but , even more important , it might be precisely the reason why measured productivity remains persistently weak . quite plainly , the notion that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or to workers ’ hours ) no longer applies .
but there need not be a trade-off between inequality and growth . a modern economy also requires risk-taking . governments can mitigate growth by boosting inclusiveness . so it is vital to ensure that everyone can live up to its potential , which requires educational opportunities of all . a country ’s most precious resource is its people .
this may lead patients to consent to procedures that they fail to understand – or want . consent should not be snatched away , like the train ticket that has been kept in check for a conductor . this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of “ konsenting a patient is ” : as though that was something done to a patient , like drawing blood , or possibility of administering an injection : “ dr. smith , please pursue consent mr. jones . ” a problem is compounded when consent gets just hours before a major surgery , and months after the latest surgeon consultations . instead , consent would have to be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he or may choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case .
those with sought-after talents have more or less bargaining power , they are better able to manage their careers and command higher pay . those without in-demand skills struggle and feel disposable income . nonetheless , faced with loom talent , the need to retain employees could tilt the balance back toward greater investment in professional advancement . so far , that original abundance of choice has discouraged companies from spending resources on training employees , who might very soon decide to join a competitor . so far , it is true that employers that provide learning opportunities will become a destination for talent .
similar to traditional military command-and-control protocols , they acquire power in numbers , and could respond quickly to a broad array of attacks . in such a forward-looking scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might end up with a network of computers fighting one another , while humans stand by . fortunately , at this point , lives are still far from imitating art . such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reduces options for failure and mitigating the effects of an incursion . it would portray the larger notion of “ singularity , ” a hypothetical turning point , when an artificial surpasses human .
the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new era , with reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – in june . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from members of “ science science20 , ” a term made up of g20 countries ’ national academies . on april 30 the world witnessed the abdication of one ’s majesty ’s emperor emeritus akihito , the first abdication by a reigning emperor in 202 years . it is precisely for that reason that the us needs to ensure dfft , and turn data into the public goods of scientists worldwide . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of an enhanced system of data storage and governance that ensures open access for scientists globally , ” and the “ sharing of information gained through research activity conducted under a wide-ranging and supranational collaborative effort to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . ”
beijing-based american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously observed that , by protecting the environment and human rights , cities are the true engines of national prosperity . to be sure , today ’s cities are facing many challenges . their cities are empowering growth through innovation , trade , and exchange . and city services are often more visible to their citizens than they are to federal aid ; consider , for example , who responds during traffic accidents or natural disasters . by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are bolstering their brand identities and taking uring talent , investment , and businesses from around the world .
two days after google announced its decisions , the new york times published a commentary by thomas la. two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published its commentary by thomas piketty , the world ’s author is stephery , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china on unfair trade practices . the danger is not just that economic rivalries , protectionism , and trade restrictions would threaten global prosperity ; it is that such developments also raise the risk of serious political confrontation . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been borne solely by trump and his own neo-nationalist agenda . technological sovereignty would take the place of both trade and exchange , and the nationality of us corporations that – even major multinational corporations – would become just as important as their own business model . if that is where the earlier ideological high agent of globalization now stands , it is china that confronts not just with trump , but with liberal america as well .
instead of accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to alter the rules by themselves or their own interests . on the international stage , large states attempt to make international regulations and often build their domestic legitimacy on their claims that they thought to be shaped by the larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing on ” globalization . small states ’ nervousness and fears began to resurface by roughly as measured by the year 2000 . new political realities were highlighted by the cold war in iraq , china ’s quest for energy resources in the developing world , and russian foreign - and domestic-policy assertiveness . in a small-nation setting , an dense network of controls is likely to result in the loss of mobile factors of production , whereas in large states the harder of labor or capital to escape .
a law restricting transportation strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy is planning to break the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 in 60 . rather than repealing the us law , the work of overtime is to become easy and relatively inexpensive . in fact , democratic legitimacy has won a major struggle over social legitimacy . that opens the way for deeper and deeper reform .
their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and will likely hamper efforts to set the european economy on a sounder footing . with the united kingdom ’s extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has done in america ; yet the challenge of implementing eurozone financial reforms is actually more difficult . governments regard home-grown banks as systemically important buyers of sovereign debt . and yet governments argue that more effective regulation would curb credit and slow the pace of economic recovery . as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( as well as in japan ) have steadfastly resisted increasing capital requirements , despite the widespread agreement that doing so portends is an indispensable component of effective re-regulation .
this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that comprised the former . but , however different ideas may be , the tactic is the same . in order to solidify support , thatcher would side with a carefully selected foe – from british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as a hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon ” wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals ’ fight for the causes that alienate them from mainstream america . each time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , and sexual minorities forging trump ’s crucial support base .
the two weeks since taiwan ’s contested presidential election of march 20 – only a third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost to a breaking point . whereas canvassing the votes in his hometown in southern taiwan on the eve of the election , us president chen and vice president anne lu were both injured by assassin ’s bullet . the compassion this had secured president his razor-thin margin of victory – with a mere 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chan , the kuomintang party candidate , and the people ’s first party ( kmt-pfp ) a governing coalition . taiwan ’s young democracy must deal with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s reelection has thrust upon it . young democracies can be brutal : their voters are often as forsaken as political opponents .
even before intervening in ukraine , putin has failed to deliver on his spectacular promise , made in 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s economy in less than a decade . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still performing little better than mexico ’s . signature efforts at economic diversification and modernization have failed so far , because disruptive technologies and business strategies may not tempt those at the top . in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as a twofer . but raising russian living standards remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his long-term legacy .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has just had a chance to become his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were down to theirs : the man of the left ’s move toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected amid an economic crisis . on the assumption that power was the way kim and lula had been able to adjust , both politically and mentally , into the new realities that confronted them , launching much-needed reforms . both immediately confronted the international financial constraints that opposition politicians could afford to ignore . indeed , some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neoliberal ” ) , and perhaps impossible under the right-wing politicians .
annual economic growth averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed for lee kuan yew ’s global urban prize . but his decision to run for prime minister is by a potentially riskiest move , as it would test his own national appeal . though the us supreme court has cleared him of all personal wrongs , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it more difficult for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . this did not prevent modi from taking political risks , beginning with his remarks that india needs toilets more than temples . but history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , the deaths of more than 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in 2002 .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this opposition ; instead , it is merely discouraging initiative . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp annually . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign costs china 1 % of gdp a year . perhaps this can be countered by private-sector dynamism , but even there , fear of losing control within the party .
meanwhile , turkey and the united states have a mutual interest in cooperating together in iraq , syria , and iran . turkey ’s real strengths are its thriving economy , its secular democratic system , and its capacity to mediate between its western allies and a region that is struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream . but , as turkey builds closer ties with the us , and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to contend with a more assertive russia , which is eager to demonstrate itself in the middle east and eastern mediterranean , and preserve its foothold in syria . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the context of the broader transformation of its arab neighbors . for better or for worse , the middle east ’s status quo has unraveled , and turkey will have to reconsider and define its own regional policies .
meanwhile , another important factor has been better integration of treatment plans . contagion among newborn babies , once running at around 70,000 per year , has been halved by some 63 % , and the lives of millions of hiv/aids sufferers have been prolonged . with almost two million fewer patients now receiving antiretroviral therapy , annual aids-related deaths have declined by around 100,000 since 2005 . these remedies have pushed down the rates of new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , especially among those aged 15 and 49 , continues to rise ) . the government aligned its early anti-retroviral treatment programs on existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 with early-monitoring programs for pregnant women .
but this can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia is somehow conserved in order to ensure that current and future researchers ’ current and future generations can make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider the polar bear , endangered by climate change . these mammals spend up to seven months hibernating , during which time they are fundamentally immobile . a human would lose by a third or more of a bone mass , when immobile for this period . astonishingly , hibernating bears lay in the new fetal , by creating a substance that inhibits bone and promotes those that bone and cartilage them .
but they need stronger support – not only in the air or with arms and training , but also from western special forces . the entire alliance should commit itself to defeating terrorism . this is about a global order within a stable and prosperous world . yet this is not solely european fighting or that of the united states . there is a strong argument , too , for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has been under attack , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty that ensures mutual defense .
now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly includes existential questions about europe ’s survival and that of the entire european project . this means that electoral candidates in the coming year are unlikely simply to focus on domestic issues . after all , despite their differences , practically any eu country currently is grappling with the question of how much europe it wants , how open and more optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and how much social solidarity is appropriate . those debates – and thus the european parliament , which emerges next year – are unlikely to adhere to the standard party lines . while some will probably emerge , too , from this point , a wide-ranging debate about europe ’s future and policies will probably arise , particularly in areas such as migration , defense and security , energy , and the climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia .
the question was not to be about how to deregulate quickly , but about how to develop the right regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and host to others that even the best-performing market economies can not meet on their own . after all , far too little regulation has been the issue of capital and financial-market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and us treasury , that led to the financial crisis of 1997 . market failures are a fact of life ; but so are government failures . • while neo-liberals worry about an overrule , weak government impedes growth because a weak nation can not deliver law and order can not enforce contracts and can not ensure a safe , sound banking system .
importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; us exporters preferred a weak one . any and all monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . to make any sense at all , monetary policy has had different effects on various groups simultaneously at different times . any and all of these monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . an interest-rate hike pleases savers , whereas rate cuts are boon to borrowers .
even as real wages rise in some coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . and even real wage increases at the national level will not undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity grows steadily . in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than might appear . nominal wages may rise while real wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . so the finding seems to be that wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness over the next ten or even 20 years .
to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the current exchange rate , we must look at the us trade balance . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because german exports have become attractive to foreign buyers of foreign buyers at the current exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . germany ’s ’s exports exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion over the previous twelve months ; its surpluses equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp . clearly , germany ’s net exports would remain high even if europe appreciated substantially from its current level .
these structural elements were amplified by developments in the region , which strengthened the sense among israeli voters that they were being threatened by multiple enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its rockets ; the rise of isis amid state failures in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . in the weeks leading up to the election , the israeli public seemed to have grown weary of a prime minister who went into office long enough to encroach on the arrogance of power and tainted by a simulacrum of petty scandals . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the arab status quo than to advocate accommodation involving territorial concessions . indeed , netanyahu ’s victory has been clearly an enormous personal comeback . he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma , as well as to scare tactics .
yet , with recent presidential elections coming into view , the situation has begun to get worse . throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best-laid plans can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience has shown . four billion barrels of oil has been discovered off ghana ’s coasts in 2007 , with output beginning in 2010 . the next year , the petroleum income management ( income ) act divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . investment should therefore be phased out , which may imply a temporary stockpile of some petroleum wealth abroad .
back in 1997 , at the imf and the united states treasury , the imf blamed the crisis on a lack of exchange-rate transparency . but when developing countries pointed their fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and american passion for greater transparency diminished . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , and hidden bank accounts have prospered . but there are some large differences between then and now . most developing countries have accumulated massive foreign-currency reserves .
policymakers should do the same when it comes to lifting sanctions against russia , mitigating its impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence to maintain influence in ukraine . looking at the ecb , they will find the right model for deploying them . by selectively tackling some of the most dangerous risks , draghi was able to minimize them . in any case , the hardships suffered by eu citizens could be fuzzy if the eurozone was followed draghi ’s last prescription , providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to offset reform and fiscal consolidation in others .
think of the appeal of films like thelma and louise , or a working girl in whom a lead character is a ray of gutsy , exploited secretary who , downtrodden by a snooty female ivy league boss , nonetheless headed to an end to a dreamliner , that dreams guy guy , and corner office . so , when sarah palin is mastering the media limelight , she is becoming a symbolic insulting fantasy from many of those silenced , exhausted plant workers , and secretaries . while reports surmount that palin has told a group of african-american women that she does not have to hire black people , working-class white women frequently comprehend their own experience in terms of racial hostility . they perceive an underclass on whom they believe receives benefits that they are denied to them and a thriving , developing-country economy , which siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs . to see a working-class white woman trump squezzed as serving a heartbeat from the american president exasperated with them .
that change will give china a far better chance of avoiding the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” which ensnared most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that a prescription to restart growth is sufficient to achieve developed-country status . as i emphasize in my new book , codependency of china and america ties them together inextricably . already , china has delivered on this front by abandoning a major growth model that has guided the country ’s economic development for more than 30 years . it has recognized the need to shift from a services-led model – and investment-led manufacturing ( via manufacturing ) to one led by private ( through services ) consumption . the u.s. and china cases do not exist in a vacuum .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) , where they will attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . while such solutions have some merit , they lack the inadequacy to address effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that led to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on an extensive understanding of the factors that underpins gdp – and undermining – financial stability globally . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , one that involving breakdowns at almost every level , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level institutional incentives . at last year ’s summit with central-bank central banking ’s future dialogues , which pittsburgh inflation targeting against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should embrace a countercyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to encourage multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary objective .
piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , it has spawned a winner-take-all environment , in which the most technologically advanced actors have acquired market share by producing economies of scale . specifically , as the global economy moves toward a knowledge-based economy of value creation , few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries prevail large , with a global tech boom augmenting their gains . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by producing too-big-to-fail actors while hampering smaller players ’ capacity to compete . the global financial system reinforces such concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household savings .
but prevention must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of the capital market far outstrips the ability of any one country ’s — and the international community — to counter such flows . many countries lack foreign-currency reserves enough to meet a sudden and large capital outflows without a destabilizing domestic economy . at times such outflows may work through no fault of the country in question , but they are a consequence of a financial market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . all of this phenomenon was too evident during the asian crisis and in the wake of russia ’s sovereign-debt default of august 1998 .
like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , switzerland has forgotten nothing , and have learned nothing . blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because it wants britain to be , as he puts it , “ at the heart of europe . ” the only real question now , in doubt , is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite yet at all , ” “ wo n’t before the next election , ” or just plain “ no . ” most commentators have tended to assume , if that ’s what tony blair wants , then sooner or later , that is “ what ’s going on ” because , after all , it is prime minister . it is a decision being taken virtually independently by prime minister tony blair and even opposed his wish .
but what can stop the demons that already unleashed ? trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including his commitments to truth and evidence , ” has been accompanied by an unconstrained “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such revisionist emotions as racism and class envy . ” the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s current problems worsen and enormous opportunities are being missed . there was some backlash against trump after his failure to condemn clear to the white-supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the right ” rally in august put an end to the murder of a counterprotester . and , while “ stopped , ” can the damage already wrought ?
what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is n’t even a hint of how additional his tax policies would be financed , with each indication that they would widen the budget deficit sharply . finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for the average cost of childcare . that might seem broadly beneficial , but it would help only those in the highly enough tax brackets to itrize deductions , most of which receives annual incomes above $ 75,000 ( median american household income stood at $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike all other presidential candidates since richard nixon , he has refused to muster his income-tax records .
africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they address a root cause of migration on – and off to – a continent . for example , the entrepreneurs supported via the anzisha prize have created more than 300 jobs , producing more than $ 850,000 in capital . and in south africa , maranaparker , a founder of the academy of social innovation and its incubator , created a virtual currency , known as zlato foster active participation in skills-training workshops . when young people attend courses , accessing laptops , or teaching in rlabs , they make zlato a loan that can be exchanged for food , medical services , and fundamental necessities . since its inception in 2008 , reconstruction has created tens of thousands of jobs , and is now active in 24 countries .
but then scotland would demand its own special arrangement with the eu , putting the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup and potentially dissolution . avoidance of this scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy to the guise of the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . the choice is between one of the three scenarios of brexit and suspending the brexit process altogether . british leaders need to recognize that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs to hold domestic debates to rank the voters ’ preferences . but this would angered hardline brexiteers , and might split the conservative party , a risk-averse theresa may has been reluctant to take .
the country also captured $ 70 billion of its remittances last year – more than double the levels of inward foreign direct investment . encouraging them to do more , and give reason for their cause to do more , is certainly a worthwhile task for the indian government – and the overt objective of the annual conclave . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect to the pravasi bharatiya divas celebration , as proposed by the many parallel street seminars that are run by state governments in order to attract expatriate investment . the importance of diaspora financing , from working-class indians ’ remittances that transformed kerala ’s countryside into the millions poured into high-tech businesses in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors , simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . but the us should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their gdp in india than the overseas chinese do in china .
firms that ignore the broader social and environmental context within which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulties in recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or increased climate-change-related costs . for example , apple ’s brand has been rocked by revelations of brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to concerns among customers , employees , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions , and agreed to periodic reviews by an independent agency . there are now cellphone apps that assess and grade large , transnational companies ’ supply chains for customers , investors , and public employees . firms that score poorly on the risk of losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or regulatory action .
they , too , tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage a high savings rate . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent high-profile published 2004 paper ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of a rise in saving rates , because china substituted investment in capital for child-investment . this prevented the birth rate from rebounding following the 1966-76 cultural revolution . at the same time , however , increases in income and demographics do not explain everything . increases in saving in china , for example , began at around the same time as their one-child policy was implemented in 1979 .
in the 1930s , the former us supreme court justice louise wendell holmes , a crubler old veteran of america ’s civil war , was taken to by franklin d. roosevelt , the fellow harvard graduate but one not the distinguished graduate student . after all , practical people have long understood its significance in the governance of the us . most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq . asked later about his impressions of the new us president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ” while the concept is modern , the thinking is not new .
ever since sudan won its independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country had convulsed the near-constant civil war stemming from the north-south cultural and religious divide . an artificial fusion of the predominantly arab , muslim north of sudan , and africa ’s south , where christianity and its traditional animist beliefs are predominant , has been an abject failure . an isolated but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei would allow voters to choose whether they want to unite in the north or the south . were a non-muslim south achieved at independence a large degree of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , one is inconceivable that the country could have remained at peace . issues were subsequently complicated by a standalone conflict , this time among muslims – over resources in the west darfur region .
usually , they were formulated in acceptable ways , asking me to look in ” a particular issue . but i , too , received requests , often from the global superpowers , in ways that were in a clear violation of article 100 of the un charter and i had to spend great time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . when i was the undp administrator , i had to grapple with constant “ requests ” from government representatives . but my general experience , at the undp and the world bank , suggested that general staff and governance could and did accord with article 100 . being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was right and ordinary ; taking orders from them was not .
and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 billion over the three years leading up to 2018 , because the company has recited the pace of its shift to green energy and a collapse in demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations . more broadly , the investor agenda on a low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing about $ 34 trillion in assets under management . meanwhile , the department of energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who have ignored climate-change warnings have already done a financial hit . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund executive director , has lost around $ 90 billion over the past decade , double the share of its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . these investors are urging governments not just to rein in rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement the tougher objective of curbing global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing america . but trouble with america 's allies , particularly japan , could draw the us into the fight that it would prefer to avoid . in short , china is on the precipice of a great , necessary , and dangerous , transformations that promise a nation a better off or make all it worse , including regional stability , are far worse . the entire world has a large stake in what will happen next . conflict with the united states is also unlikely , at least for the moment .
south africa adopted the freedom of information law in 2000 , just five years before the united kingdom did . now , however , south africa ’s right of information is in jeopardy . in late november , the parliament ’s lower house , headed by a majority of the african national congress ( anc ) , was overwhelmingly approved by a new law – the “ protection of the state information bill ” – whose adoption would shield the country its most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and the anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer likened the bill to apartheid legislation . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution ensures public-sector information and , in a number of cases , private business information .
washington , dc – with china ’s economy slowing in recent years , it is still a potent performer , contributing about a third of total economic growth worldwide . it is also becoming more sustainable , in line with a shift in its outsize growth model away from investment and exports and toward domestic demand and services . in fact , in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china loudly challenged new commitments on structural reform to spur growth in advanced and emerging-market economies . but , at home , china is facing significant risks . first and foremost , domestic credit has continued to expand at an unsustainable pace .
hong kong – earlier this century , when china initiated its own “ go out ” policy , focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese firms , few expected that a country would quickly emerge as a leading economic player in latin america . yet that is precisely what has been happening , and it is still doing that now . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather peripheral economic role in latin america to being one of the top investors and trading partners for most of the region ’s countries , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly , a trend that appears unlikely to change anytime soon , china has now set its sights on another goal : expanding its political clout in the region and beyond . the question is whether that is good for latin america .
and both are ready – even eager – to bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead . there is little question nonetheless about which america ’s nominee putin would like to see in the white house . in remarks following the press conference , he heaped praise on trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and on the “ absolute ” presidential leader . the two men are sure to deserve each other ; the two are also consummate propagandists and the performers . the two are also consummate propagandists and their performers .
the first has been to embrace the center right ’s agenda and pursue labor-market , taxation , and investment policies to “ adapt ” france to a capitalist ” era of globalization . in practice , this would mean pursuing policies to assimilate the middle class , while updating obsolete , center-left agendas to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . the other avenue would have required macron to build on a pre-existing but ambiguous conception of left-wing internationalism . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route he initially selected , quickly becoming the darling of a business-oriented international press . as the nobel laureate economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a larger state , so that it can compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so on .
“ if you live in a state that wants mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including 60-year-old women that a fine , ” ” ” ” ” and failing ; later , one can figure out how to change a state that you live in ” or modify “ state legislatures and state laws , ” ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s phrase . in a benign scenario , the people will club together in different states on the basis of their preferences for a great or small-government , public or private-sector provision of services , and international cooperation or isolationism . in the vindictive scenario , on the other hand , trump and the us congress might seek to limit progressive states ’ rights . michelle k mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has made the case for this . “ why do we look to the federal government to attempt and fix our local problems ? ”
whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s , meet with nuclear means , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry through the non-restoration of existing licenses and bans on future plants . the blueprints is still formulated , but taken together by the two countries ’ commitments to marks a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . moreover , they pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new competitive footing in the regional marketplace . for years , over-dependence on traditional fuels has discouraged investment in clean-energy generation , despite the fact that the two countries are giant green industries like energy storage and smart grids .
under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders agreed in principle to float the renminbi , but refused saying when it did . a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital markets and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; alternatively , china would have to surrender controls on its currency supply and interest rates to america ’s own . even so , china ’s rulers are right to delay the decision to float . the chinese may postpone , but they can not hide from a fundamental economic law : if the exchange rate between the two countries ’ currencies are fixed and capital flows between them are unrestricted , the economically dominant us will exercise control over another country ’s monetary policy . because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the supply of american dollars as long as china sticks to its fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply .
indeed , even that level might not even be low enough . as the paris accord recognizes , many scientists believe that above-1.5 ºc warming is risky , and that adaptation to it will be extremely expensive , especially for developing nations and island states . so the us is in the race , too . will we turn the tap into zero-net emissions well before the bathwater strikes a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ? the good news is that , if we somehow quit everyone ’s emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only over a decade , or so before stabilizing .
indeed , nobody has any real idea of the consequences , both for the uk in the global trading system or for its effect on domestic political stability . mind you , the west ’s citizens are blessed to live in an era of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can resolve through the eu ’s democratic process , rather than its foreign and civil wars . but what , exactly , is a just , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining choices ? i am afraid that this wo n’t be a fairly picture . is it really enough to gain 52 % to vote for the breakup of a rainy day ?
security and global influence are not the only advantages that come through military spending . defense expenditure accounts for 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom reach 3 % . but the confining discussion of defense spending to a rate hike of gdp spent on the military is insufficient , because there are economies of scale in defense spending . thus , one would expect smaller nations to spend proportionally more on defense than bigger ones . instead , today america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and defense spending in the us are likely to rise even further in years to come .
new york – at the just-concluded session of the united nations general assembly earlier this month , a widespread feeling of foreboding among world leaders was put on hold . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say or tweet . back in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back in the immediate postwar era , and felt like “ present ” in creating a new world , based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . but , in the beyond ga this year , many attendees felt as though they were present in the devastation of that world . even before the summit began , europeans were canadians , mexicans , southern koreans , and japanese had consultation in earnest on the need for fresh alliances to rescue the multilateral system .
bahrain remains a tipping point ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel could flare up anytime soon . indeed , it is fragile that democracy is at best throughout north africa ; at best , across north africa ; and in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia has merely started to feel the waves of a tidal wave sweeping the region . as events over the last two weeks in egypt demonstrate every bit too vividly , the arab awakening still finds itself only in its first act in a number of countries . still , just as america remains on track to play a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another to form a united opposition , and working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals . in the medium term , the world abounds with tensions and potential crises , which american leadership is probably indispensable to resolving .
meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , rather than just eastern europe . the impact of this lost european perspective became obvious in the autumn of 2008 , when , in the aftermath of the subprime crisis and the failures of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . in today ’s germany today , because no one with decisive power in business , finance , or the governments that have experienced war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future on its own . those new leaders envision europe only as a trading regime . there would not be a common european plan to deal with the crisis and no call for public money .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . such flaws are particularly visible in poland , where a highly centralized political system generates pernicious winner-take-all platforms . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is now set to enter russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . yet , sadly , the treaty will merely entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal enterprise practices , not increased commerce or prosperity . in fact , when is a free-trade agreement a bad thing ? when the underlying purpose of the treaty is neither trade nor freedom for all . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud .
the party ’s imposing headquarters in tunis symbolize its position as the most effective political operation in the country by so much . scores of volunteers are deployed as part of an electoral campaigning on grassroots , door-to-door level playing . the ascent of “ nahda ” ( renaissance ) , a leading islamist ennahda party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among the newly liberated population than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill a post-revolutionary political vacuum . since january , “ nahda ” has opened more than 200 office buildings . while opponents ominously recall the involvement of party cadres in their deadly tourist bombings in 1991 , nahda has gone to some lengths to appease his critics .
consider the first the assertion that the us dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world must hold dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because it needed to have a highly liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the funding gap when its imports exceeded their exports . but , since the late-1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large inflows of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-led growth strategies and a desire to avoid a repeat of the ensuing speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the problem is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” in conventional sense . an obvious candidate for that reserve fund was american treasury bills .
by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . it is extremely hard for liberals to accept that a bad policy can produce good economics and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary offers a stark example of those that do have been a bit of the past . by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy .
the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to heightened global conflict . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major human risk . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common plan of action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global food partnership . the world bank has forcefully stressed the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion and break the cycle of poverty . countries and organizations are already mobilizing now .
of course , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : defined-benefit retirement planning needs positive returns to bankrupt even , and when most of its assets yield a negative nominal yield , such outcomes become all the more difficult to achieve . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates for investing mostly on bonds is less risky than stocks or other volatile assets . and yet negative bonds are also occurring in countries and regions where the currency depreciating currencies and likely to depreciate further , including with germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan . so , too , are why are investors holding such assets ? a number of long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative , because they are obliged to hold safer bonds .
the trouble is that , in pursuing these reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . with polls showing that some 70 % of the french support the “ yellow vest ” protesters , macron has been forced out . in his first year and a half in office , macron started addressing these problems by implementing a budget along with eu deficit rules . step by step , his reforms have seemed consistently to benefit the wealthy . and so , when he was announced that his administration would increase the tax on diesel fuel , center – and working-class commuters took to the streets .
yet the perspectives that refute this narrative seem to be gaining ground . as it stands , perhaps the biggest barriers to greater international cooperation are political . many world leaders believe that westerners squandered their influence through the international system by intervening politically and militarily in the affairs of others in no obvious endgame . a intensifying opposition to international cooperation has emerged in recent years , rooted partly in fears – stoked partly by populist political leaders in a number of countries – that supranational “ elites ” advocate imposing “ globalism ” : a “ ideology which prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . ” some also argue that the global elite merely pretend to pursue socioeconomic change , while actually maintaining the status quo that benefited them .
by inflating inflation , the fed would turn real interest rates into serious negative levels , thereby coercing thrifty households in spending rather than saving . this is an alternative logic from the one calling for core inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at the expense of investors ) , but it has equally severe vulnerabilities . think again of the soon-to-retire us office workers . by raising demand , firms would hire , and all do fine . first , while low rates might encourage spending when credit was easy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go out and spend .
though the g-8 made a clear pledge , there was no plan on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear instructions that no such plan would exist . the g-8 has now been reaping the consequences of its inaction . for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers padded on debt cancellation operations . with those debt cancellation operations largely complete , the data now expose a stark truth : development aid to africa and to poor countries more generally has been stagnant , opposing any promises that were made . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , total aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , has risen by a meager 2 % .
but that is not what the average citizen sees . perhaps the greatest grievance of the last year have been inequality . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on life in 2015-2016 in the transition survey , produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i was the chief economist ) , the perceived rise to inequality far exceeded the reality described by official data typically based on household surveys . on the global level , however , rising inequality has been . and , while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the rise has not been particularly dramatic and remains at a reasonable level .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the most influential countercyclical organizations in global history . america ’s central bank has control over fed supplies , and it currently exerts a heavy influence over vital interest rates , both for short - and long-term long-term borrowing . and , though the fed was partly responsible for the regulatory failures that pushed the global economy to its near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it , with an even greater degree of authority and a greater responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is a worrying outcome , because senior fed officials seem to have slipped back into their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even as those concerns were voiced by america ’s senate banking committee members . that is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political position seems far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize .
as a result , they face a daunting task throughout the anthropocene era : guiding us toward environmentally sustainable management . that will require appropriate human behavior at all levels and may well involve internationally accepted , broad-ranging geo-engineering projects to optimize ” climates . more by luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation has not developed . unless a global catastrophe is triggered by a meteorite impact , world war i , or a pandemic – mankind will remain an important environmental force for many millennia . at this stage , however , we are still predominantly treading on terra incognita .
one is the creation of democracy and the rule of law in countries that have more recently emerged from dictatorship . in all of these cases , a confederation would be semi-right . the process requires a constitution making of what is often complicated and painful . constitutional change is to political leaders a welcome distraction from far increasingly change-resistant societal issues . but there are at least two exceptions ;
that is undermining corporate profitability , spurring corporations to deleverage and reduce investment , and fueling further declines in ppi . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s breakneck economic growth is reflected in the trends from the first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest rate for any given quarter in seven years , has exceeded market expectations . and it was driven , partly by an unforeseen increase in real-estate investment growth , to 6 % . this is not to say that what china needs is more real-estate investment .
iranians have imports some inputs ( most notably the intellectual-property represented by a drug patent ) , are assembles a product in iran , and are exporting it back to america . in terms of value-added , a us patent is making the biggest contribution . but this does not mean that trump ’s skeptics can just sit back , waiting to be proven wrong , because it is possible that the first-year reported trade deficit will narrow , even as the true us trade deficit widens . it is all coming down to “ transfer pricing ” by us prices multinational corporations using to place a value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which sets up a us plant in iran .
recommendations have included increasing affordable transportation for family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing availability of sex education , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . local ngos , along with responsible global partners , must find new support for programs that educate women about their own rights and grant access to safe abortion services . solutions start at home , which is why they need to start moving away from conditional aid that restricts community providers ’ capacity to work according to local legislation . and yet , due to us policy , none of these changes will come easily . indeed , if countries like south africa are ever to break out of republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to fight the global gag rule .
we want firms that already offer refugees an online learning , internet access , and hardware to drive educational provision to displaced and isolated girls and boys . in establishing that fund , we are ending the era of a formulaic crisis response . we want technology firms to play a central role in providing fresh thinking and disruptive thinking . what makes this fund unique is not the series of new benchmarks that it sets . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection could motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass .
but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has started to pull itself along . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but was in turmoil . debate over an association agreement with the european union , coupled with the russian-backed rebellion in eastern ukraine , had stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . russia ’s intervention had to some extent backfired , boosting support for a european orientation . eastern ukraine might have voted very differently from the rest of the country , but the overwhelming majority of voters emerged in european favor .
a top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , which is under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy by banks . a top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , which stands under the pressure of both brexit and the crisis gripping italy . against this backdrop , the challenge will be to retain the primacy of global standards , and to secure continued buy-in from the basel committee . yet for now , the bank for international settlements is agustín carstens , a former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , because will whoever replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year as the fsb ’s chairman . similarly , a new chair of the basel committee will now go on .
supervision , more transparency in financial markets , an efficient early-warning system for financial crises , and better coordination of international policy . the crisis made it clear that national supervision of banks that operate globally is insufficient . in fact , regulatory gaps created spillover effects for other countries have created spillover effects . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally have been absent . crucially , international regulatory gaps have created spillover effects for other countries .
europeans may be faced with down by us extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , the us , and russia . indeed , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a plausible long-term threat . should america implement them against much of the rest of the world , the damage to america ’s economy , the dollar , stock markets , and american leadership would be irreversible . trade with iran may easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee bills , and rubles , avoiding american banks . oil-for-goods deals may be accomplished through euro-clearing mechanism such as instex .
the fact that the international monetary fund , america ’s department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing “ vulture funds ” is revealing . but so , too , is the court ’s decision , which had evidently assigned little weight to its arguments . when a sufficient proportion of its creditors agree on a plan for restructuring ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of a country ’s gdp did ) , others may be compelled to go along . countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , not least without specifying more fully what is intended . such treaties should also involve collective-action clauses , making it impossible for vulture funds to hold on debt restructuring .
oil exporters need to increase fiscal spending further ; japan and the us must unleash higher growth through structural reforms ; and america must implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings . indeed , re-balancing the us growth pattern is the central economic objective of china ’s leadership . knowing what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is the easy part : look both at multilateral consultation policy plans and not just doing it . as america ’s treasury secretary ’s recent semiannual report to america noted for china these plans aimed at “ rebalance its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility on its exchange-rate regime . ” but expanding demand and allowing real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will be insufficient if other countries do their part .
following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , however , economists increasingly question gdp 's usefulness as a substitute for the sake of an economy 's health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . africa 's experience demonstrates why such an approach is badly needed . washington , dc , has been the ultimate measure of an economy 's welfare over more than 80 years . yet , as the world 's economies become increasingly complex and technology-aimed , economists increasingly question gdp 's usefulness as a blueprint for an economy 's health , with some arguing for a radically new approach .
the notion that he should n’t take steps to protect his own interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out of touch with him . furthermore , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pocket should certainly be worrying to americans . do n’t get me wrong : despite his imperfections , there is america ’s positive power over the world . and the west ’s policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in its borderlands like poland ’s – are not necessarily wrong . indeed , it may well become the only emphatically positive force , along with the european union , that should stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal military leaders such as hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán .
fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored . according to the oecd and climate-policy initiative , the developed countries have collectively mobilized $ 52.2 trillion in 2013 and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poorer countries rein in greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . while it is important to note that this figure is only an estimate , it represents a tentative but credible indicator of climate finance , based on the insights that developed countries have provided . if one assumes greater leverage over private-sector investment , the number would be higher . but larger financial flows are also needed , especially from the private sector .
first among such sources of uncertainty is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to implosion , or will greater multipolarity underpin increased resilience ? likewise , will governments and institutions be able to adjust quickly enough to harness change or be overwhelmed by it ? and this leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . moreover , while the inter-ethnic conflict has been downward , the intrastate conflicts fueled by youthful populations , identity politics and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . then there is a set of questions regarding the impact of new technologies .
but america ’s interest in iraqi oil was not driven either by its policies or by its energy policies . indeed , the bush administration recognized that , above all , was iraqi oil a critical geopolitical asset . were the bush administration seeking stable , secure , diverse , and inexpensive oil supplies , it might have simply lifted embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let alone the oil gush . ironically , it is true that the american people have exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector , under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , has determined a level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it would have in any future democratic iraq . at the same time , everyone ’s room for american oil controls has not been so central to iran .
to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are a concomitant of western-style capitalist cultures . but challengers , like those of china and india , are in no position to preach by example . one 100 “ oligarchs ” in india hold assets equivalent to 25 % of its gdp , whereas 800 million of its compatriots survive on less than one dollar a day . likewise , even if china became the world ’s largest economy by , say , 2018 , the american population would still be vastly richer than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times that of china . compared to indian capitalism , capitalism ’s ethical failures elsewhere look especially benign .
typically , that principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar at different levels of labor income , for different types of consumption , outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on . one of the more efficient tax-raising methods is the american payroll tax , for which the marginal tax rate is close to the average rate ( because deductions are absent and there is little graduation on the rate structure ) . cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 , and making rate schedule more widely ( on the medicare side ) , was thus a mistake from the time of efficient taxation . viewed from this perspective , the us government ’s individual income-tax shortcoming is that marginal tax rates are high on the bottom line ( owing to dramatically increased transfer programs ) and outlays ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . from this perspective , the us government has been moving in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( through dramatically increased transfer programs ) and more recently at the very top ( by raising tax rates on the
so long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy – and do n’t take measures to restrain the impact of changes in international prices on home prices – domestic rice prices and other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices do . raising interest rates can rein in aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame increases in the prices of some goods and services , especially those without traded goods and services . but , unless taking intolerable levels into account , such measures by themselves can not bring inflation down to target levels . for example , even if global energy and food prices rise at a moderate rate than they do now – by 20 % a year or so – and roll back home prices , bringing the global rate of inflation to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere that would almost surely act as a pegged economic slowdown and high unemployment . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do the importing countries have to pay more for their grain , they must pay more to bring it to their countries , and still more to deliver it to consumers , who may be living a long distance from the ports .
thus , they do not formally renounce anything to do with each other . yet defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders . the leaders that brought on failure , and those that did not triumph , become heroes for have been able to say that they courageously fought the enemy without being crushed . such a pattern is a formula for endless conflict and never-ending defeat . important points for them are that they won revenge through inflicting wrongs , shown that they were real men , not buckle under , and have survived .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) levels of fascism are misplaced . as he leaves office , the us will essentially be what it was after it entered it : the world ’s most powerful democracy . america ’s core institutions have survived greater challenges than any that trump may pose . even though america remains deeply divided in 2017 , americans remain committed to their central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and periodic elections and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is unlikely to attempt to overturn any of them ; and , even if he does , he will fail .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent , even if tissue had already been removed from a patient ’s own body . in fact , who is supposed to have access to those samples , for example , or at least a person or more . some professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent even when tissue was already removed from a patient ’s body . today , there are brain tissue banks , genomic banks , blood banks , umbing cord banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories for the study of different diseases . in the real world , who is supposed to have access to those samples from them ?
leadership is broadly distributed throughout unhealthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good governance and bad leaders . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology , and broadened participation ; citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new directional leadership demands . they must also improve understanding the nature of contextual intelligence that they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . with soft power , however fortitude strengthens leaders . potential leaders , in turn , can learn more about the sources and limits of soft-power skills from emotional iq , vision , and communications , as well as hard-power political and organizational capabilities .
it has done so in defiance of the united nations security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for the talks . that deal was intended to set the stage for an independence referendum in western sahara the following year , an agreement on a democratic solution . morocco , too , has repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiation . yet morocco has made it impossible to carry out that . the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a ceasefire agreement .
moreover , both candidates embody continuity , with chirac ’s gaullist side for sarkozy and françois mitterrand just as rupture . to a large extent , sarkozy may be perceived as chirac with more , whereas royal obviously is mitterrand with fewer . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may be more dependent on negative rather than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac faced the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round . moreover , the two candidates embody continuity – with chirac ’s gaullist side for sarkozy , and with françois mitterrand to the royal – as much as the rupture . as in 2002 , the victor will be whomever the electorate ’s minions or fears less .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year and next . global powers need to be allocated somewhere ; unless america would fill its leading role on the international stage , understudy would have to tread . in fact , as china withdrew its jumbo oil-platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , and deployed surveillance ships to the senkaku islands are all too often . at the same time , chinese officials have become more willing to discuss developing a code of conduct for the south china sea . with obama unwilling or unable on the ground , owing to rising political partisanship at home , to take the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , with america ’s allies taking the latter .
indeed , the typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it has been in more than four decades . labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the us labor market in large numbers . there have been some increases in capital requirements , but far short of what needs to be done . the majority of americans ’ income and wealth are well below their pre-crisis levels . yes , the us has done some things to try to improve financial markets .
new york – whether or not america will continue to lead the world remains unclear . what is clear is that america ’s politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant of it . the two leading contenders for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted cruz , both say they would tear the iran nuclear deal , if elected . they are worth recalling president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to reiterated bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : the kim regime , promptly , and , predictably , developed a nuclear bomb . the republican presidential campaign adds another element of uncertainty .
at the same time , legal proceedings have been opened up to opposition parties , including members of the turkish government . as a result , president vladimir voronin later provided an amnesty for the detainees that were amnesty . but many remain in detention , and voronin continues to bide accusations in the opposition and romania of orchestrating the coup d’état . restoring stability and a fair democratic system to moldova is important , first and foremost , because moldovans also deserve a government for responsibility . stability is also important because the country ’s borders on romania , a member of the european union .
on the eve of their fall , a handful of arab autocrats had actually been lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in embracing the “ right ” economic policies . like them , they were misleadingly misled by false inferences ? in the past , were economists focused on the wrong sequence indicators ? the world bank of successive mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been problems with the policies that they prescribed for arab ancien régimes . that raises a raft of other questions .
while china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after that , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing into the us . a key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets that are unrelated to trade and longer-term capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . in the wake of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents hit rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) , and the total may reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year . controls are leaky , to be sure ; but they have worked ( so far ) , making sure that china effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years .
the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of total war that would have arrived at less than a century after his death . likewise , he and his supporters have taken aim at the vital institutions on which american democracy rests , including the courts , the legislative branch , independent media , and more . but that is more than that which : it is . in a country where it is supposed to have its deepest cultural and political roots , democracy is being directly threatened . trump does not just want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it .
whereas official interest rates stand at just 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , whereas creditworthy businesses in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs massive supporting the real economy , too . so the ecb should do more to unblock the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital levels rather than hit a unified 9 % target ; and , when necessary , national governments should offer guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size firms . in short , no country can relying on structural reforms alone to stimulate gdp growth in 2012 . instead , an immediate focus is needed on boosting investment and exports in current-account economies , like france , italy , and spain ( as well as the united kingdom ) and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands .
introducing genuine competition from energy and telecoms , lacking in the process of privatization until now , is likewise committed . during prime minister aznar 's first term his popular party privatized most public-sector firms and a deregulated many service sector . his new administration vows to continue eliminating the public deficit and reducing unemployment . at the same time , he promises to slash income taxes , institute a country 's social-security system on the firmer footing , and cut costs for shedding labor . aznar ’s program is a rational yet ambitious achievement .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every region of business life ; trump ’s business activity over online astounds . an important new report by the us department of commerce ’s “ emerging digital economy , ” the “ emerging digital economy , ” suggests that the internet is sapping not just of american entrepreneurship but of the global economy . in 1994 , three million people , mostly american , used the internet . as recently as january 1995 , there were about 27,000 online trading addresses . by 1998 , there were 100 million more people over the world .
( natural foods can also pose health risks , as was shown recently by studies producing a popular kind of cinnamon can have caused liver damage . ) there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite the fact that they receive far more intense scrutiny than more naturally occurring foods . though cross-pollination rates between gm crops and wild plants may have occurred , so far no new superweeds have emerged . so regulations to protect the environment and consumer health must be preserved . we should be pleased about that – and perhaps those regulations put in place in response to the concerns expressed by environmental organizations played a role in this result .
we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none occurred and governments remain vigilant . alas , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until risks actually materialize . a virus can only be a few hundred lines of a computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs , which must be designed to detect a wide class of enemies . let us hope that we are lucky for at least some time longer . the virus protection and virus development constitutes an uneven arms race .
such impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis , conducted by a team of eminent economists tasked by my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessing possible population-related targets , to identify the best global investments . this approach has enormous potential benefits . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country workforces would provide a larger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . moreover , each dollar invested in the initiative would generate almost $ 50 in returns , making it the exceptionally efficient use of scarce resources . as a result , this approach has enormous potential benefits .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetamol in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most widely used drugs . it is the preferred medication for comfort from fever and pain because of its safety profile , but ten years ago , the hypothesis was proposed that use paracetamol may increase the risk of developing asthma development . these studies led to the suggestion that the use of paracetamol can represent an important risk to growing rates of asthma . since then , a variety of epidemiological studies have reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in maternal and adulthood . wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetamol in the united states ) – is one of the world ’s most widely used drugs .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the ministry of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . “ the answer , ” he says , “ is in part that by backing a thriving top-level intellectual community , ” we can train our next generation of intellectuals . mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that a space space program for the region is critical to raise careers profile in science and engineering in a part of the world where the most well-educated people still pursue their funding or governance . mcgruder , who works closely with african astronomers , agrees that a space program for the region is critical to raise careers profile in science and engineering in a part of the world in which the most highly educated populations continue to contract or administer . today , the country believes that it has around 60 working astronomers , over half of all of africa ’s astronomers .
mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were our logical outcome . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all of the other components of today ’s discontent with free capitalism , became inescapable . in this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads , particularly in the post-2008 reality , which confirmed widespread control over societies by mega-firms and mega-banks . unprecedented new debt was thus generated to shift value to the deal , in the hope of benefiting enough to pay for a future . because neither banks nor investors had sufficient money to plough into networked mega-firms , the mega-bank emerged in the form of a global banking-price global , and shadow fund each with its own shareholders .
cambridge – several years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would reemerge as soon as the economic crisis hit . that now seems unlikely : neither america nor china is headed back on its pre-crisis pace of growth or spending pattern . nor are earlier trade balances of the kind to reemerge . america ’s trade position will be enhanced by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and increases in productivity that auger further recous manufacturing . emerging markets , for their part , have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of faster growth .
still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one may occasionally find a credible message alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his cronies are piloting eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s government has been the subject of several investigations by the european counterfraud office . both governments have cracked down on nongovernmental organizations and directed or co-opted media . during the election campaign , orbán ’s administration saturated the country from xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in its alliance with the christian democrats , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority , enough to amend the constitution .
we know that a diverse set of poorly understood factors causes embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to differentiate among all possible cells of cells . this loss of capacity for differentiation can arise from particular mode in which particular cells are derived , the terms surrounding their growth , and other variables for handling . following these discussions , america 's us national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that allow for stem-cell cell research but , in their current form , forbid federally-funded investigators from creating new stem cell lines . this limitation requires that stem cell lines be obtained only from the privately-funded or commercial sources that follow guidelines protocols . i believe restricting the use of a government for the creation of stem cells , though a politically imprudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps .
yet , far from accepting such contributions , the plan would mostly sever regulators . for example , a plan would bar mega-banking regulators from initiating bankruptcy , leaving it to the bank ’s own managers ’ discretionary powers . while bank regulators have the tools to put pressure on banks to do likewise , their most efficient is the power to initiate bankruptcy when it gets best for an economy . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often simply wait too long before declaring bankruptcy , so that creditors might foot in the event of some pushing , potentially even forcing a bankrupt firm ’s bankruptcy . taking away this facility would likely have dire adverse consequences .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” of climate change . investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental grounds . instead , we are told about purported economic payoff , first and foremost the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , that does not measure the size of economic reality . the copenhagen consensus center has asked gül , a senior energy economist at the center for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at austin , to assess the “ state of the science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of green jobs .
genuine engagement with civil society is the only way to spur two struggles governments and overcome their own conservatism . it is absolutely vital that this text be accompanied by another route , tailored to the current world , in which we are living – a world where politics is no longer conducted in muffled ministerial debates or through convoluted communiqués . after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more so than money , determines course events , and where capacity for experimentation throughout every sector is an indispensable driver of success . genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to spur two struggles governments and overcome their own conservatism . it is , however , regrettable that the treaty on ’s 28 articles is extremely obscure .
while there is much that can and will be done to assist ourselves , the horn of africa may still benefit from some international assistance . that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable government , rather than subsidizing failed and failed states . for example , somaliland and ethiopia are collaborating to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for the people in one of the world ’s poorest and least developed parts of the world . but the international community needs far more than providing food and medicine to victims of severe famine and drought . as it stands , we need pro-growth investments that help provide jobs for our peoples and products and resources in the world .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . trento – the broadest possible outcome of the recent european parliament election – is neither that the conservatives and the social democrats have lost seats to liberals and the greens , nor that far-right nationalists have gained much less in response to it . it is that citizens voted in a much larger number than anyone expected . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
in a sense , the killings at srebrenica were also influenced by memories of the end of world war ii . we know that adolf hitler had intended to destroy every final jewish person , a woman , and a child . a laudable efforts to prevent such an act from recurring , however , have had unfortunate consequences . for , in our zeal to learn lessons from history , we too often learn the wrong actions or distort history to a dubious end . while mass killings are not rare in history , it was hitler ’s extermination plan , if not unique , certainly very anomalous .
but the path for particularistic action that does not undermine freedom and equality of all citizens is narrow . democratic principles call for organizing society in such a way that both values may be realized within the greatest possible scope . that is the paradox intrinsic to democracy , and it is the duty of policymakers to address the tensions that it affords them to rise . yet it is also the duty of citizens to preserve the formal , political , meaning of citizenship , as state intervention broadens toward ensuring everyone ’s well . this may limit political freedoms in the name of greater equality .
do such figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are these ordinary signs of booms ? if america ’s rate of gdp growth in the decades ahead remains what it has been over the last thirty years , the answer is simple and terrifying . in fact , stock market prices would have been far too high , at least in the short run . households would have been behaving in totally irresponsible ways . a exterior imbalance would have been unreasonable , indeed unsustainable .
he , for example , cites the draining away from industrial employment as the most glaring proof of france ’s downturn . but deindustrialization is common to virtually all advanced countries . moreover , according to a better comptetitiveness measure , foreign investment , france does extremely well . indeed , france does better off than most of its wealthy country rivals , and , unlike germany , the uk , or the us , it has retained the same global market share that it had in the early 1970 ’s . baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not nearly as compelling as he believes .
if italy and the eu failed to grasp the need to work with non-western countries and to make them feel as responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc and closer to declaring a universal moratorium on the death penalty would fail . a second lesson that i have learned equally is that the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge , and where all players , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence on a daily basis . this lesson is that europe has more friends than its enemies . for those friends , it is those friends who deserve respect and attention . i know that this is not quite another lesson ; it is precisely what i have in mind when i contemplate efficient multilateralism .
of course , he did not offer any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants , who have rescued strangers ’ lives , even though such cases have been reported at all . the problem is that empathy for american workers is in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china , which would have been even worse off , at least in their american counterparts . empathy makes us a kinder to the people with whom we empathize . the problem is that empathy for america ’s workers ’ workers is in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china , who would have been even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts are . trump , in his own campaign speeches , has made use of the tragic assassinations of jang steinle by an undocumented immigrant in order to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies .
small countries are subject to market discipline , as any latvian would tell you . or it might be that national policymakers do not trust the imf , given that it essentially missed out on the global financial crisis . if they do , the fund needs to win back on their confidence . financial markets and global reach need a global “ macro-prudential ” regulator , not just a loosely organized house of supervisors . this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely its bully pulpit to warn of the risks created by large-country policies .
what businessmen do is not need is low inflation to expand production . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall other than a handful of niche markets . provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for labor , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . this is friedrich hayek 's famous argument against any attempts by governments or central banks to stabilize prices . they need only the prospect of more sales .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is roughly half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s , and more than twice that of india ’s . at any rate , they were held back by earlier points i ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp . these divergences help to explain why a host of new acronymic groupings have , having been carved from the n-11 th century onwards , including the mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) , and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i did not devise these groupings , but , having been associated with them , produce the bbc radio documentary on mint countries in 2014 . for eight years , the fog economies still have a chance to account for about 2-3 % of world gdp in the future .
but obama was reluctant to call out russia publicly or engage in heavy-handed actions on fear that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls , and jeopardize hillary clinton ’s expected victory . and because us president donald trump treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration , too , has failed to take forceful action . america ’s intelligence agencies had alerted president barack obama to russia ’s tactic , warning putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . following the election , obama went public and sacked russian spies and shuttered some diplomatic establishments , but america ’s weakness had undercut any deterrent to it . the brilliance of russia ’s information-warfare emerged to combine current technologies with a level of deniability that remained just below the threshold of overt attacks .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has stirred up the way the campaign runs , how nominee communicates with voters , and the republican party ’s platform with a number of positions from the gop tradition . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks have been rendered meaningless within a couple of hours . he shifts his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them out . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line – and this is not an entirely healthy one .
this year alone , sources of discord with russia has multiplied and deepened . russia has withdrawn a series of nuclear deals , and the kremlin recently imposed iriskander missiles capable of transportation medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad , near the polish border . moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from resolved : the minsk ceasefire agreements are not respected , and armed conflict could escalate at any moment . then there is russia ’s role in syria ; so , too , is the role of russia in the current war . and it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , employing sensitive papers and funding right-wing populists , from marine le pen ’s us ally donald trump to support the kremlin .
but a deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why , then , does he appear to despise the eu so profoundly ? why should america try to undermine europe , rather than seek closer cooperation to safeguard its own economic and geopolitical interests ? yet a deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and reliable ally ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s key national-security issue .
the report , a few months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community , identifies germany of its current set of norms and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , ” freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order that adheres to universal norms . as gauck proclaimed , germany is an overriding strategic objective ” to be “ preserving and pursuing adaptation ” under that order . to achieve this goal , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to solve problems , and settle conflicts affecting every one part of the international community . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that allow it to operate well with others , and that create and mobilize “ coalitions and networked coalitions of like-minded states . ” the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic heft , and military might , coupled with affordability of resources and technological proficiency – remain relevant ; but they are often inadequate to confer on actual influence in international politics .
and he has implicitly condemned gazprom over monopolistic policies , promising to help poland diversify its gas supply . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and an outspoken critic of the pis ’s government , has concluded : “ i believe trump ’s speech has been well done . ” he has made powerful allusions to poland ’s history , and has been a very flattering to the us , as poles . with his performance , trump has managed to attract enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not only from pis-curated crowds , owing partly to his public greeting under opposition leader lech wałęsa , booking pis supporters , and remains the polish goal of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . he has not utter a single negative word on the european union , germany , or france .
add to that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and the exchange-rate crisis looks quite unlikely . the key will be getting markets and policymakers on the same page . by contrast , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility – and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy – so do the rest of the world . given that all of this activity takes place in a offshore renminbi market – which is small on scale and has only limited links to mainland china ’s financial system – the result of china ’s hesitancy about financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility remains controllable . but this does not mean that there are no risk .
if your own behavior is good – ie , you do n’t drink , beat your wife , and , of course , give your money to the church – you ’re fine . in the church that boasts of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” seems startling . even young men study after priesthood get very weak philosophical training , and this is done purposefully . many polish bishops almost openly declare themselves to their flock : you are to listen , not to think or argue . faith is a matter of heart ; it is a matter of necessity .
for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved to be the main guarantor of freedom of speech , especially through its judicial reform . as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular profession , including journalists , receive no cranked up of immunity from these types of severe criminal charges . moreover , one should note that as many as 7,000 newspapers and magazines are published in turkey , with an overall circulation of almost five million copies . freedom of expression and press are guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and articles . of poland ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over the government .
true , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . but those countries would be just as wise to signal to china that it is welcome to take its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and as the rules-based rules set for all . america and others will need to push back in order to ensure that they do not act on the kind of temptation to do so . at the same time , america ’s and others will need to push back in order to ensure that china does not engage in such a temptation . but the larger policy choices will be those in which china is making .
large speculative bubbles are rare events , because we have a great deal of human beings . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by a kind of interpersonal contagion . a bubble forms when the contagion rate goes up for ideas supporting a bubble . ( little bubbles , in priced by prices of , say , individual stocks , happen all the time , and do not qualify as a response . ) but contagion rates depend on patterns of thinking that are hard to judge .
virtually ending the great communist experiment takes place ( save for a few holdouts like cuba and north korea ) . the last half-century has shown that while developing was feasible , this was not inevitable . socialism had its day of trial and was found wanting . the ideology of the far right , as conveyed by the washington consensus of neo-liberal , market fundamentalism , was not much more successful , even though its failures often went unacknowledged . the century just went on was coarse at simplistic ideologies , both on the left and the far right .
there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s hyper-targeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in the key states that he needed to win an electoral college . second , with intra-european migration having surged , there are now more than 15 million europeans residing in eu countries than their own . as populists well know , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to difficulties registering in the host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and on overly complex absentee-voting practices . by picking up or buying large voter data sets , campaign campaigns can replicate the electorate into strategic clusters that use complicated algorithms and then deliver personalized online content to aspiring voters . micro-targeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting completely .
even if the chinese authorities managed to achieve full convertibility and tradability over the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would de facto become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not readily established . at the same time , the rest of the world might not be willing to build up claims against china – at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . indeed , more than three centuries of rapid globalization have dominated only three “ currencies ” have dominated : the gold standard , the british pound , and the u.s. dollar . perhaps no accident that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries that possess the rule of law are well established and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination . indeed , whereas the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the dollar since world war ii – often the provision of better stores of value that are less prone to inflation – none has made lasting inroads into the dollar on global foreign-exchange reserves .
today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries run deficits that are larger than germany ’s ten years ago . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that was closer to 4 % of gdp , possibly not high by today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s standards , but higher than the eu ’s average , at that time . the turnaround in germany ’s public finances was the result mostly of spending cuts . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries run deficits that are larger than germany ’s ten years ago . as a result , the one area where the government has clearly conducted itself is public finance . in considering which the lessons of germany ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one has to differentiate between what government can and what remains the responsibility of business , workers , and society at large .
and , if we can no longer count on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . this involves moving beyond a closed , question-and-answer process typical of a laboratory , applying our ideas in societies , earlier and more often than not ever before . to see how things work in reality , we need to construct living labs on others – that is , communities willing to try new ways of doing things ( blunt , being conducted , like guinea ) . an example of such a “ living laboratory ” is the “ open data city , ” ” ” ” ” which i launched with the indian town of habito in italy , along with the telecom italia of telefónica , a research university fondazione bruno kessler , the ucdazione bruno kessler , the data institute , and the locally driven companies . importantly , this living lab has the approval and informed consent of everyone involved ; it understands that they are participating in a gigantic experiment , whose goal is to build better lives .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . but the way europe ’s political toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it must use economic policies to achieve its geopolitical goal . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in selection for this year , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
canberra – the trade-offs are an intrinsic part of life . to fix the roof , we may have to embrace a less extravagant summer holiday . we all recognize this from our own private budgets . picking a cheaper wine may mean splurge on dessert . trade-offs also pervade environmental policy : cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to address other problems .
london – the british election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , is transforming the outlook for britain ’s politics and its relationship with europe , but not necessarily in the manner of a vastly increased majority for might ’s conservative party seem to produce . the scorched-earth defeat that the conservative euroskeptics expected to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by everyday mail on may ’s election announcement : “ crush saboteurs . ” but june some resounding victory might ultimately produce an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after destroying all opposition in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still snatch its victory from the jaws of defeat for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british election , may was effectively extending the deadline to britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from 2019 , until 2022 .
it is more than strange to argue that the rest of the world must cope with a built-in advantage toward china ’s exporters because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change at all . then again , perhaps we ’re fortunate that things are not much worse . no wonder an impressive premier is thought to favor some political process . from east to west , politics would seem functioning in such a way as diplomatic , suboptimal . elsewhere , of course , that type of turmoil has the democratic safety valves .
under this vision , the eu ’s people had the nation to lose , and the continent , to gain . but some recent election results indicate a growing fear of losing a nation-state . princeton – the biggest unresolved issue on the european union – is mobility . ever since the single european act removed limits on working in other eu member countries , the continent has had a single labor market , at least in theory . the integration process was intended to make it easier and more appealing for europeans to move from one country to another .
a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have a larger say . common political institutions , accountable to voters across europe , would provide the ecb ’s democratic fiscal counterpart , and help cage german power . a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives hold larger say . with no-bailout rules restored , governments would have greater space to pursue countercyclical policies and match the electorate ’s changing priorities . but rising animosity among the eurozone ’s member states , together with the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries , implies greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous .
during the global financial crisis , the g-20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like fiscal-policy responses and the role of the international monetary fund . by underscoring the need to avoid pursuing trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also imposed some pressure on governments on what they did not . the g20 was clearly a step forward in these respects . lately , however , as the g-20 struggled to reconcile divergent national economic interests and rebuilding strategies , its initial meetings in washington and london in 2009 were far less successful . bogota , lima , santiago , – international economic coordination is just as necessary now as it is elusive .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable , which comprises chief executives of america ’s largest companies , with combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion , updated its longstanding statements concerning corporate purpose . in fact , shareholders arrived at last for ceos ’ new listing . it ’s not just a matter of shareholders , ceos say ; their firms must be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . and statements by the principal author , in his apparently exhilaration , are reported to have found that he felt like thomas jefferson drafting a declaration on independence . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , ceos might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in dentate gyrus , which is suppressed by acute and chronic stressors , is elevated by many antidepressant therapies . still , one of the problems many existing medications is that even testing the great depression is very high – about 70-80 % . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those that may generate structural neurodegenerative change in our brain – are not being subject to full arrest , which is why a new generation of anti-depressant medications is urgently needed . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those to which we potentially lead to structural change in our brain – are not being dropped out of reach , and that a new generation of anti-depressant medications is in urgent need . lithium , a sentiment stabilizer and neuroprotective agent , does have attributes that we seek , though its toxicity makes it less so than ideal .
tiger parenting aims to get children to make the most of what abilities they have , and so seems to lean toward the “ clever ” side of the “ clever or happy ” choice . stanley sue , a psychology professor at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide , which is especially common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more than females ) . in his view , he believes that family pressure is an important factor . stanley sue , a psychology professor at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide , which is especially common among asian-american women ( for example , more than females ) . chua would reply that reaches a high level of achievement yields great satisfaction and that the only way forward is through hard work .
one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have managed to enter power in recent years . for the most part , they are individuals like venezuela ’s president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy ’s ex-prime minister , silvio berlusconi . for the most part , they are already enter the political scene from france but manage to form a highly personalized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . many other names could be added to the list . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have managed to put themselves in power in recent years .
families have fewer and fewer children , and larger numbers of children are born out of wedlock . after a lot of soul-searching , i voted for the bill , although with no acute sense that i have been striking a blow to liberty . fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , with marriage being considered less and less as a lifelong union . there is a clear status benefit to the small minority ; no obvious harm comes to most ; and longer-term consequences are unfathomable . thus , one of the unintended consequences ” on the bill might be to add welcome recruits to the ranks of child marriage , even though those recruits are of historically anomalous kind .
during the 2008 us presidential election campaign , obama turned out to be a talented communicator . setting the right example is another crucial form of communication for leaders . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised its government ’s salaries in march 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced his intention to forgo the raise on his own . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some us business executives made a voluntary reduction in their salaries as a way of communicating concern to their employees and to the public . ronald reagan had been a master of ill-chosen anecdote , but he claimed that he would retire from the imf to the west .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only in fighting common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary infections , but also in treating a vast array of infections such as tuberculosis and malaria , which now risks becoming incurable . with the g-7 leaders having committed , in a recent joint declaration , to addressing “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) – it is time for a more inclusive g20 leader , and china , as it chairs a pool for the first time ever – to take the fight to next levels . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality , or among their country ’s level of development . indeed , by 2050 , a total of ten million people could dying as a result of amr , up from around 700,000 today with china and india each with around one million sufferers . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp would already disappear .
forgetting that history might doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or for worse , it might also ease constraints and establish its own leaders free . sydney – the appointment of a five-year provincial-level chinese communist party boss in early december is a reminder that the ascension to china ’s coming generation of leaders to assume power in 2012 may be the most consequential development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign begins in 1978 . all five appointees were born after the people ’s republic ’s founding in 1949 . two of them , hu yaunhua and sunni zhengcai , are only 46 years old . first , the upcoming generation of leaders will do so with little or no personal memory of the turmoil and hardship endured during mao zedong years .
to avoid inexorable decline , europe must reach clear decisions on three crucial issues . first , eu leaders must identify how to resolve the euro crisis . a cyber super-bug , for example , destroys the networks on which our lives have come to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and environmental collapses . in this set of possible outcomes , one point stands out : the uncertainty of europe ’s role in a future global system . last but not least , a certain scenario emerges .
but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , combined with negative interest rates , caused financial institutions ’ equity prices to plummet , leading to another pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , increased illiquidity , and overcrowded exits . the american dollar is a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still lacking an impartial lender of last resort . past experience has taught china ’s real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms – rather than easy money and competitive devaluation – is through painful structural reforms . the open question is whether america ’s and other reserve-currency country will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability through an agreement , resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which five major us economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . if not , why should asia ’s net lenders , particularly from china , continue to fund speculation against themselves ?
the houses are riddled with bullet holes . we have seen the buildings – and not only the ex-hamas headquarters , which is still in the rubble . currently , there can be no electricity , up to eight hours a day . and a good traffic deal – with new cars smuggled in through tunnels from a “ philadelphi route ” route – is running along the egyptian border . but the real life is also traumatic and limited .
looking ahead , china and hong kong saw prices equal to recently , too . but , unlike a hindu military strategy , flawed monetary policies produce unavoidable deleterious , not merely worrisome , risks . sinking prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for the next decade or so . many central bankers are like the proverbial general planning act to combat the latest war . yet , despite having been defeated in inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and , because it may fail to confront the latest bout of economic menace – global deflation .
the first would be to foment a military war . the world would have to steadfastness resist another ruinous america ’s military adventures . that is obvious on the american agenda , especially the neoconservative doyen , john bolton , back at the white house as national security adviser . even if america now sub-ents itself from the jcpoa , this has only two means of blocking implementation of a deal between iran and the rest of the world . extraterritorial sanctions are the second round by which america could kill the jcpoa .
presumably , it was in response to this impasse that china pressed ahead of the establishment of the aiib . a strategy of containment worked well for america and its allies during the cold war ; but that can not be applied today without the flexibility and pursuit of strategic common purpose . critics of america ’s policy point to the fact that , even with america thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia and around the rest of the world , one way or another . the size of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – makes it reluctant to be wished away . channeling that influence through the newly-created international organization , argue , tends to favor raw power grabs .
tel aviv – america ’s former president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without actually saying anything at all . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and losses – the worldview , exemplified in his declarations that america ’s allies need to contribute more to its security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to that zero-sum , isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes obvious , it will be what the united states or the world , indeed , needs . indeed , trump is a businessman , rather than a statesman-like .
globally , companies are the largest business-sector r & d investors in the u.s. and other oecd countries . in 2009 , entrepreneurship accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies constitute the largest online investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spend more than twice the rates for japanese firms . but business investment as a share of gdp has changed very little in the us during the past decade , while it has risen rapidly in many other countries , including canada , china , singapore , south korea , and israel . and american multinational firms still locate roughly 84 % of their r & d activity in the us , often in innovators clusters around research universities . for example , in america or elsewhere , multinational firms accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the u.s. in 2009 about the same decade earlier .
beijing – as measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at roughly 48 % , according to official statistics . given that the proportion of urban dwellers has received only 18 % just 30 years ago , this is remarkable progress . but it remains unsatisfactory , because most other countries on a similar stage of development have experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . another striking distinction between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , big and small , lack any semblance of meaningful urban poverty or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at about 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force , whose income accrues mainly to nonfarm business .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , has been the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . a loose electoral process has brought hamas into power in palestine , and the hapless episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrates the almost combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments paving the way for new interpretations . today , iraq may be on the brink of a civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran under a new and more radical new president is moving irresistibly towards reining in its nuclear capacity .
last january , lula visited israel with a string of prominent brazilian business leaders , and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . calderón ’s uncompromising tough line on drug dealers in mexico , an unrelenting offensive that follows the precedent set by uribe in addressing the farc was also helped , because economic growth had muted domestic opposition . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula had no intention of allowing chávez to lead the way . this made it easier for lula to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , having , as recently as march 2008 , backed chávez , following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes . calderón ’s emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout , because things began to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over his brother the presidency , raúl .
new york – before our eyes , a tragedy in several acts is unfolding , in which the actors and their purpose are clear . the first act began with the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . the eu chose to have ukraine entered a customs union with russia , in exchange for a stockpiles of cash and inexpensive oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin seemed to have achieved his own political objective – namely to bringing a ukraine that had drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet era – firmly back into the kremlin ’s spheres of influence . what is not known is how many more variants this grisly political spectacle will have , and why – and how – bring an end to it .
but there is a larger question lurking behind the gge : can norms really limit state behavior ? most experts agree that a global treaty on cyberspace currently would be politically impossible ( though , at least , russia and china have made such suggestions at the un ) . yet , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also involve codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and widely shared expectations of proper behavior among a group ( creating coalitions of all ) . in scope , these constraints can differ from global , plurilateral , more bilateral . while the number of subscribers has increased from the original ten-fold to 25 , most do not have a vote .
nonetheless , monetary policy is a far more awkward , indirect , and imprecise way of selecting winners and losers rather than fiscal policy . think of the different effects of borrowers ’ interest rates on borrowers versus lenders . so , too , has monetary policy redistributive effects . these considerations should guide the choice of what comes next in the european stability pact . an independent central bank may at some point hurt policymakers , but they can at least be used as scapegoats when necessary-looking a role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful instrument .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would have grown more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-credit ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . indeed , as a result , china ’s housing prices have been skyrocketing in recent months . unlike america , china suffered not from a liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . the government was overly generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and , overwhelmed by fear of the negative impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , was far too cautious in dealing with bubbles when they re-emerged . consequently , low interest rates and nonbank interference fueled explosive credit growth during the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target .
it is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision . by exercising turkey ’s capacity for mediation , erdogan believes that it will recover the burdens of his ottoman forbears as the guardian of the secular state and its security guarantors in the mashreq . erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also extended into the education system , with the introduction of a markedly religious curriculum . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law has , until now , made the tug of arabic obligatory teaching in school . now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ” of eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as the guardian of the secular state and cement government control of the judiciary .
thus , he and giscard had created the european council ( composed of the heads of european governments ) that are now a key player in europe ’s institutional raise . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration , which came to fruition a generation later . he remained skeptical about notions of irreversible progress . change for the better could reemerge simply from practical initiatives , not from sunday ’s speeches . european integration , therefore , had to be shaped by policies and institutions , rather than by decree .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , the prospects are suddenly far clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted might create the illusion of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize as soon as a period for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship is stretched again from a new , very soft proposition , the april 12 deadline , until the end of the year or beyond .
it no longer dreams of becoming a “ united states of europe ” , ” ” ” ” ” and jacques delors ’s suggestion of “ the united nations of europe ” has remained overly ambivalent , if not intentionally unambiguous , about being effective . can the most determined pro-integration europeans abandon the pack without becoming paralyzed by the would-be coalition ? to be sure , iranians “ no ” ” is not the equivalent of the eu of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . even so , it also represents a major stand-off and challenging the eu ’s institutional , political , and even psychological character . following the iranian no , ” ” can the union find its salvation within nato ’s notion of a “ willing coalition ? ”
indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of that era ’s scourges . the good news , although likely , is that the threat posed by the islamic state in the middle east and elsewhere can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what is also required is a dose of realism . we can not eradicate or destroy it any time soon because it is as much a network and an idea as it is an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war .
small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism . failing that , the left will come to power and undo years of reform and progress . mexico ’s own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performing performance , as has the determination to hang on to and even widen the reforms of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , world bank president salinas . mexico ’s economy has had a good few years now ; not extremely hard to achieve given a booming america next door and great liquidity in global capital markets . but a currency board will also help launch financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms that were starved of domestic capital through experience of recurrent crises and bad loans .
such assistance wo n’t yield immediate results , but medium-term awareness – which implies readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – is also an indication of the liberal order . fighting al qaeda , therefore , is not a war ; it is a tragedy in itself . it is partly self-defense , partly an assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances , and partly through constructive efforts to heal the causes of frustration . it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful modernization process . people who are suspended between the vanished past and the future , not so far , have gained the support .
fear of another islamist takeover is the second major argument against overthrowing assad , but the longer it remains in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground . groups like the syrian national council are loose associations of individuals and groups , many outside of syria . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups inside syria that are equally varied and divided . these are groups that criticize the obama administration and others for their failure to bring forward a united front , articulate a plausible agenda , or be perceived as a viable alternative to the current regime . it is among these groups that radical islamists have gained a foothold .
but this was not a over-regulating and over-reaching case . by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation made possible by picking the hearts and minds of regulators , and by politicians on both sides of the aisle has given a narrow private-sector elite mostly on wall street , almost all the upside of the housing boom . the downside was shoved onto the rest of society , especially the relatively uneducated and underbanked ones that now had their homes , their jobs , their hopes to their children , or all of the aforementioned . not surprisingly , however , this was a case of over-regulating and over-reaching . to be sure , these people did not cause the crisis .
french leaders have proved an inability to communicate effectively or to apply past experience in analyzing current threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overweening rhetorical battles about minor controversies . the unemployment rate stands at roughly 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has generated large trade deficits , undermining the competitiveness of small and medium-size businesses . at the same time , the political crisis is impeding the government ’s pursuit of tough reform .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . in 2012 , two decades after the government embarked on a series of economic reforms aimed at opening up the economy , the official poverty rate peaked at 22 % , less than half that rate in 1994 . but the time has come for india to increase its aspirations . escaping abject destitution , though important , is not the same as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security . to that end , much remains to be done .
yet , far from making space for diplomacy , trump ’s adviser , sebastian gorka , recently told the associated press that “ the idea that secretary of state rex tillerson is negotiating military matters is simply not sensical . ” likewise , south korean political leaders must avoid being swept away by that intensifying campaign rhetoric . as soon as the march of war erupted , there was little space left for diplomacy . if that does n’t change anytime soon , perhaps the us , as then-british prime minister david lloyd george wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle through ] into war , ” has not yet changed again . but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat have significant influence over military affairs ?
alemán , too , is facing a rebellion within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular of the party ’s liberal party . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy at the plc and pushes him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances of winning the presidency rises sharply . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy within the plc and pushes him to form another political party , ortega has ’s chances of winning the presidency by sharply . it is so tempting that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him to serve his own political interests . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : are it preferable to align himself with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán , or to support a new democratic force and risk helping ortega win ?
but , whereas for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private investment stable , for friedman ’s key was to keep the money supply – the amounts of purchasing power in readily spendable form among firms and households – stable . a divergence of opinion that rested on different judgments about how the world works , which could ( and ultimately was ) solve through empirical research , one might say . and you would be half right , as would anyone . a relatively minor matter , technical difference in the means ; one might say . friedman and keynes therefore agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary – that the private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability , ­so that a strategic , mighty , but limited , government intervention was required to maintain stability .
the prospect of an u.s. monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward stronger monetary stimulus . with the dollar , the euro is down 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of the year , and the yen is down 14 % . but speculators think ahead and move out of commodities today in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to put another year on a downward trajectory for today . fourth of the channels , the exchange rate , has already functioned . the result has been the appreciation of the dollar against the euro and the yen .
i am conscious that judiciary goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human-rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he initially stepped forward . but he was able to work with the council ’s president in order to secure the agreement that he felt confident would allow the mandate to be interpreted in such a way as to allow his team to address the actions taken by the two parties to the conflict . i was also aware that the un human rights council performed a repeated condemnations of israel over the last two years , but had moved on little attention to large-scale human-rights violations in other nations . this pattern of activism and inaction by the council drew greater credence to those who believed that the un ’s supreme high human-rights body was inherently anti-israel . i had decided that i could not commit the un mission for such reasons .
in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union had substantial soft power . many communists had led the resistance against fascism in europe , with many believing that communism was a wave of the future . but soviet soft-power staff was undercut by the exposure of stalin to the crimes of 1956 , and by the repression in hungary in 1956 , czechoslovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . the net effect of these brutal actions was a widespread loss of faith . even though in theory communism aimed at establishing a system of class justice , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , broad censorship , and ubiquitous informants .
coronado , california – most people think not of charles darwin as a psychologist . indeed , of course , his work has revolutionized the field . prior to darwin , philosophical speculation has shaped our psychological understanding of the natural sciences . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbes , gaopenhauer , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could only describe current mental events and behaviors ; they could not explain their causes . darwin provided a profound understanding that evolution influenced the shape of our thinking as profoundly as it shapes our bodies .
indeed , evaluating the impact of any research project is difficult . even preeminent researchers might underestimate the relevance of their findings at the time they acquire them . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , pointed out in a thoughtful journal science editorial : “ one can discern good science , as it happens , but substantial science can be viewed only in a rear-view mirror . ” when salvador luria , my university of microbiology , awarded the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon character to all of which had been congratulated him on the prize . it depicted an elderly few at a breakfast table .
america ’s tax code has already been regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was wrong to expect that he would pay a lower tax rate than his own secretary . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . it is now widely recognized that rising inequality is a crucial economic problem in the united states , with those at the cusp of capturing almost all gdp gains over the last quarter-century . and , when implemented fully ( in 2027 ) , it would raise taxes on majorities among americans at the center ( second - to third , plus fourth quintiles ) .
a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be classified as independent contractors , or as employees of platform companies with which they have employment contracts , and for whose customers they provide the services . california , a american state with more than two million independent contractors , has tried to settle this question with a new law , the california assembly bill 5 , that codifies the rule of law to determine how to categorize workers . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , legislators have exempted many kinds of independent contractors – such as physicians , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 does cover the more than 400,000 workers who drive for platform companies like ride-sharing services uber and lyft , and a food-delivery firm doordash . applying the three-leg abc test ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker feels qualified to get unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for firms to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than workers
making matters worse , the modi government has , for the first time in its history , invoked section 7 of the rbi act , which enables it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on environmental matters . the modi government ’s willingness to move toward such lengths indicates that more than a few interest rates are at stake . indeed , the government is particularly unhappy with rbi measures to monetize india ’s banks , many of which are encumbered by a huge volume of non-performing assets and inability to prevent risks from being built into other parts of the financial system . such measures are placing state-owned banks at the capacity to lend to politically connected clients . of course , government ministers can not come right and say so .
to be sure , abe did not confront the kind of sky-high expectations that both sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama had done . but , after two decades of leaders that – aside from junichiro koizumi – had promised little and accomplished fewer , japanese voters had little reason to expect abe to follow through on his own pledges . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambitions ; he set in motion a bold economic-reform agenda and promises to boost japan ’s global influence . as any democratic politician attest , disappointing expectations may well be the harshest electoral adversary of all . just , abe asks former french president nicolas sarkozy a “ third way . ”
in many such patients , doubling a dose of plavix , and checking platelet function with a point-of-care exvix test to assure suppression , may actually override the lack of response . there are alternative drugs , like prasugrel or ticagrelor , that can be used instead of plavix to circumvent the problem . the story of interferon , given a year to patients with a hepatitis c virus , is particularly striking . that genome variation is exceptionally common , present as more than 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and over 50 % of those of asian ancestry . those individuals who carry at least one additional copy of a gene variant that fails to allow the body to metabolize plavix to have a 300 % increased risk of being clotting a stent .
the repercussions would also be felt most frequently in mexico , where the country ’s drug cartels are tearing apart the country , and america , the world ’s largest source of demand . west africa , too , would also be affected , becoming in recent years the leading transit point for south american drugs had headed to europe . if chávez ’s venezuelan regime became the narco-state in which regime acolytes do drug lords , this reflects their highly privileged relationships with the farc . the repercussions of an imminent end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s borders . after all , war , in colombia , and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while peaceful divides them .
at their heart is the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investment aimed at the poorest of the poor . the key , though , is that the budget does not simply rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . rapid economic growth is to rely on the private sector , including foreign direct investment . thus , the defense budget promotes critical areas of market-led reform and growth promotion , including measures to expand the financial sector , promote exports , and liberalize foreign direct investment . the second pillar of poverty-reduction efforts focuses on investment to the poor , especially to the rural poor .
in fact , an exaggeration of the threat of islamist terrorism while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism might well play directly to russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . in the middle east , countries are trying to mold who should be contained . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . the struggle to prioritize its threats is not exclusive to the west . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clear iran .
cambridge – america ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , is hemmed in on all sides . domestically , he is stuck between the promises he has made ( like the “ mnuchin rule ” ) that taxes will not be slashed for the wealthy ) , president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the wealthy ) , and simple arithmetic ( making the administration its conflicting promises impossible to fulfill ) . but even on the international scene , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a tough time soon . after all , it has made the trump administration clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments it oversaw by mnuchin . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are just a harbinger of unilateral us demands , how might mnuchin , who , like his boss , lacks the administration ’s experience , choose other countries that adherence to common rules and norms , like open trade , be in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one evaluate the accord reached in paris earlier this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the discussions erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement committed not to commit decisively to limit global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but such a commitment would not have been credible . what had emerged in paris was better in fact , because the negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
unfortunately , they were educated in religious seminaries who took on a profoundly intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . fearing for their safety , muslim professionals also began to move into ghettos . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , had begun to move into spheres of social life , where the state had failed dismally , especially education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys and children received school . with discrimination soon offshoring across class lines , increasing numbers of india ’s muslims have begun to look for links with muslim communities elsewhere in the world .
with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ a large part of the proletariat , produce goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , because of their superior performance , safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by really paying back their bank loans . why most pundits miss the fact that polish workers protest , not in the liberal provinces of zhejiang and guangdong , but in the northeastern socialist bastions of the northeastern , is a puzzle . workers refrain from protesting menial jobs in capitalistic zhou but against not living in the socialist shenyang ( soes ) . the government can not cajole the unemployed workers through their pensions , because socialism had bankrupted their finances . today , it employ private firms more of the jobs of china ’s labor force than do the state-owned firms ( the soes ) .
but , while we see inequality and exclusion in club-level soccer , the opposite is true for competitions among national teams . the average victorious margin among the top eight global cup national teams has declined steadily , from above two goals in 1950 to around 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , and just 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same is true of all the games have been playing at the final tournament , not only those among the top eight national teams . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream about winning the european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) once did . the decline in the winning fringe is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16-32 national teams to 32 national teams , many of them new and rather uneducated .
in the omb index , the real interest rate on three-month us treasuries is expected to remain below 1 % throughout this decade . moreover , in that projection , the terms premium disappears almost completely . currently , ten-year us treasuries offer more than a three-month yield on three-month us treasuries . in fact , the budget assumes the best of all worlds , rather than the red-chip one in which us interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along at around 2 % . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a pegged boost to us long-term growth , as stock-market projections indicate , would historically be anomalous .
but that antagonism reflected berlusconi ’s personalization of the politics that was accomplished , just as it was an institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s last acts was to replace his majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 , with proportional rule . a new electoral system is altering politicians ’ incentives ; it could induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments . under the new electoral rules , seats are selected to parties among the proportion of the vote , but specific provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral deals : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the majority of votes receives a seats that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) . this outcome would accelerate if , as is likely , berlusconi himself had been to distance himself from politics in the coming electoral terms .
while it is comfortable that the current rate of 7 % is comfortable , it is far below the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . and it has had some success , at the expense of economic growth . given the need for still deeper economic restructuring – and , given long-term demographic trends , which reduce labor-market slack – the pre-2008 growth rate is unlikely . that is fine with li , who recognizes that the structural transformation and industrial upgrading , rather than an unsustainable , credit-led growth model , is the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to assessing wen ’s stimulus than footb/reform trade-off .
big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be influenced by a changing climate . for example , how will a city-state deal with increased flood risk and how will agricultural land hold productively as droughts grow even more severe ? we need to ensure that it is built up infrastructure to cope with the increased impact of climate change and develop clear global standards for disclosing the climate risks that investment projects entail . here , public investment institutions like the european investment bank can help with adaptation in a variety of ways . the climate-challenge demands much deeper public-private cooperation to increase green investment .
consider that violent extremists have their own “ media ” committees , which aim to manipulate elite opinion . they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks using every means of communication to intimidate and crack down on the collective will of the free people . the speaker was not some executive relations executive , but osama bin laden had his chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks using every means of communication to intimidate and crack the collective will of the free people . “ more than half of this battle takes place on the battlefield of the media , [ for ] we are locked into a media struggle in a race for the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . ”
recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civilian claims for environmental tort and human-rights abuses before american courts demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those acting negligently or with impunity . all of this explains why the sulpicio lines , the owner of the star princess , have remained in business operations , despite its many lapses . simply put , the philippine courts have not made it more costly to retain non-muslim vessels sufficiently . of course , exemplary and punitive damages to discourage behavior inimical to society do exist in the statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to use such damaging awards as a tool to control behavior , especially among businessmen .
america ’s congress is considering legislation authorizing the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms that take up the project , even though those firms are contractually required to see the task through . but , beyond fueling the anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty are adding momentum to a new push for european political unification . and , according to gerhard schröder , the former german chancellor who has now chairs the eu ’s pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany , has acted more like a “ occupation officer ” than like his us diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments angry . it ’s no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis that was a product of europe ’s saddling southern countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash that severely curtailed their competitiveness within the european system .
but the refugee crisis exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of tracking national and eu territory without border controls . all have abolished controls within their shared borders and adopted a common visa policy for non-member eu citizens . and it is undoubtedly convenient to subject , from berlin to barcelona , without having to wait in line at each border crosses . indeed , this convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have coasted their schengen agreement . it is surely handy to treat the eu-wide road from zurich to oslo as a domestic travel route , with no passport checks to contend with departure and arrival .
a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation has been development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . such cooperation is vital to combat terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . yet europe has long been more focused on enforcing shared values in the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data-privacy regulations – than on developing long-term strategies to become globally competitive . defining such a strategy could help europe to identify the areas for mutual accommodation . europeans have become dependent on such firms , all based in the case of china or america .
the us federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up the mega-banks , while letting hundreds of these crucially smaller lenders fail . just adding liquidity while continuing current austerity policies would not reignite the spanish economy . so , too , in the us , smaller banks that largely fund small and medium-size firms have been all but neglected . after all , small firms have relied on collateral-based lending , and the value of property , a major form of collateral , is still down one-third from its pre-crisis level . but lending would be inhibited even by the banks ’ already-healthier ones .
the arab oil-exporting countries embargoed on oil sales to the us and the netherlands for their support from israel . the world learned this lesson the lesson after the yom kippur war of 1973 . petroleum is a fungible commodity and market clear at a shared price . but oil-destined oil for the us and the netherlands was shifted to other countries like japan , while oil-destined for other countries found their way to america and the netherlands . when the dust settled , it turned out that america , dutch , and other us importers all suffered at varying levels of shortcoming , paying similarly harmful high prices .
the world has been horrified at graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown on the military junta . that crackdown continues under cover of darkness . but the bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear rises . monks have retreated , and nightmarish normalcy returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city , and former capital .
germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that such sanctions should include withdrawal from the eurozone , something that was never envisaged in the european union during the 1992 maastricht treaty . nor , of course , was it ever envisaged that greece faced its current economic trauma . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline , and its tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests , accounted for much of the eu ’s underlying economic weakness . the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs more integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or can it sustain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions on those that crack the eu rules . admittedly , a country ’s economic performance after the oil-price shock of the early 1970s was poor , pegged to slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , massive fiscal deficits , rising indebtedness levels , and inadequate infrastructure .
in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunity that continued growth opens up for all humankind , we should reflect on how far we have come . these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communication , modern information processing , and the like . once again , it would be an ludicrously expensive , or simply impossible , to achieve similar capabilities during earlier periods of history . in the late roman empire , only wealthy aristocrat could have purchased a nomenclator , a slav tasked with memorizing names and faces , and reminding aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a rudimentary smartphone is better than having the entourage of dozens of or even thousands , of nomenclator-like assistants .
the vital interests guiding chinese policy are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and regional unity ( one that includes taiwan ) . those interests are unlikely to change for a long time . as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for that reason – pursuing its foreign-policy interests in an overtly unsentimental fashion . insofar as this is true , the united states will no longer replace itself as its dominant power , unless and until it abdicates that role . that may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s international order .
the global financial crisis that followed the east asia crisis set off a series of large exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , rose sharply . the government pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough to force the market ’s vagaries . wages and prices fell , but not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of the agricultural goods that comprise argentina ’s natural comparative advantage face high bottlenecks in rich countries ’ markets . meanwhile , argentina ’s beggar-thy-neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – some say it became substantially undervalued .
yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lesson of either episode . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks . not only failed to mitigate the risks , underscored in the 2007 meltdown that new retail investors introduce into markets ; in fact , they exacerbated them , by allowing , and even spurring , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . when such de-bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with consumption declining and private-sector investment diminishing . it is far harder to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than for , say , that caused by balance-sheet distress in the financial sector .
but i doubt that it has . in fact , seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out the fallacy . faced with this insecurity , they do not readjust their spending ; rather , they refrain from spending until mists clear , they sent an economy into a tailspin . it is a shock , not adjustments , that spreads across the system . when financial-market shocks hit them , agents do not know what comes next .
the us financial sector has imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society . america ’s financial industry has polluted the world with toxic mortgages and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” ” ” principle , taxes must be imposed on it . taxes on highly speculative activity might encourage banks to focus more attention on performing their key societal role in providing credit . in addition , well-designed taxes on the financial industry might help to mitigate the problems posed by over-leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , particularly in advanced industrialized countries with an aging population , should worry about the sustainability of their policies .
after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and economists less predictable ) than they like to imagine . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’ remarks may precipitate such change . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’ remarks may precipitate such change . so , while such things happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as meticulously as they do to those of bernanke attempting to understand the direction of the world ’s stock markets . so , while such things happen in ways that are so hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as meticulously as they do to those of bernanke attempting to understand the direction of the world ’s stock markets .
new york – in their efforts to pass on the america ’s financial system of financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930s . but , for most asians , the economics armageddon is far more recent . the asian financial crisis of a decade ago had brought together its banks , corporations , and governments to its knees . the contagion soon spread across east asia , with ripple effects from serial currency devaluations reaching out to the likes of russia and brazil . fueled by the collapse of the thai baht during the summer of 1997 , the lehman brothers collapsed .
one ought to know the moral character of any action one is contemplating . rather , plato 's point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of its own ignorance of piety , and that euthyphro thus alone can not really know that prosecuting his father is the right thing to do . and to know that , one must be just as well from the understanding of what one is not aware of what one does . the knowledge that comes from this kind of self-examination is critical in any decision-making . to be sure , plato 's purpose in dialogues is not to define piety : if socrates knows for a better definition than the unacceptable actions that are offered by the euthyphro , he does not reveal it .
moreover , water scarcity means food scarcity . in northern africa , a encroaching desert has displaced many more people , exacerbating tensions among farmers and herders . after all , the agriculture sector accounts for around 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with bottoming water , farmers become less able to feed the world ’s population . one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water , and more than two billion lack of adequate sanitation . that year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of acres of farmland and a rise in power shortages .
the era of “ easy ” gdp growth fueled by the massive armies of young laborers is ending . efficiencies have soared , placing brazil ’s crop yields at par with those of the advanced economies . brazil ’s deregulation of farming and r & d encouragement has allowed brazilian agriculture research companies to pioneer more than 9,000 tech projects , including the design of a tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . emerging economies need to confront the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping changes in policies , incentives , and incumbents to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative , recognizing this imperative is the first step .
second , we need a clear message from the g-20 that all of its members deliver policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . since the g-20 meeting at the cannes meeting last november , europe raised its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , imposed rules on fiscal discipline , and implemented a plethora of labor – product-market reforms . but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies an urgent need for far bolder reform . feeling confident that europe will go together to meet these challenges will continue to support such efforts , because the matter of europe ’s stability and growth for us all . to be meaningful , the message needs to be revived with action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and job creation , and that they are responsible for meeting their commitments on full .
they must work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized , lest they end up as anything less than the number . but not talking about priorities makes the need to prioritize away . whenever we prioritize , we say not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not step up efforts ( which are regarded as having been cynical ) . refusing to prioritize , treating principally with the problems of the most publicized one , is misguided . instead , choices have only become less obvious , less democratic , and less efficient .
as it stands , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , but still higher than the levels they would consider ideal . that is true in most countries – including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world , though there are a few countries , like norway , where people share a more realistic view . correcting these misperceptions will transform people ’s view of redistributive policies . the point is not to go away from endless comparisons or “ arcane math , ” but to underscore that it is possible , and , indeed , necessary , to have meaningful discussion of inequality based on particular figures with the goal of setting clear targets . if the right targets are to be selected , the discourse must be better informed .
those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy . likewise , denying any bank doing business with a russian bank or society access to america ’s financial system would produce the kind of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after the fall of communism . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy ; but , for china , it was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin – whose primary claim on his rule is that he put an end to the penury of the early post-soviet years – to continue with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , what obama should emphasize was how china is their stake in eurasian stability .
for the past two years , matters have been different , and for the past two years . many financial firms have shrank their balance sheets dramatically , leaving some out of business altogether . urban areas of london , lower manhattan , and several other centers have become money machine tools that have driven investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity folk immoderately wealthy . university leaders like me spent much of our time persuading them to recycle a portion of their profits to their old schools . against this backdrop , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector has skyrocketed .
in a february meeting , america ’s united nations ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart about reports that china offered to pay $ 3 billion to the us kyrgyz to close the american base . for his part , the two diplomats were conversing in russia for the second time . the horse-trading concerning the base has been proliferating . “ noticeably flustered , ” ( the chinese ambassador ) has temporarily lost his ability to talk russia and start spluttering out in the chinese state for the tacit aide diligently receiving notes behind him , ” ” ” ” ” according to an increasingly confidential american web site wikileaks.org . indeed , the us policy has blunted pro-russian politicians who would love nothing more than to see americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan .
but , ultimately , the best way for france to tackle and avoid its resurgence is to ensure that economic opportunities are available for those determined to try . but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever likely to expect . social assistance , with no hope for individual betterment , is not nearly enough . it is time that france is beginning to questioning its particular economic model . in a recent declaration on a flanked suburb , chirac declared : “ we will need to draw some of the lessons from that crisis , when the time comes and sequence was restored , and with a lot of boldness and lucidity ” .
we believe they are faster than we in acquiring and processing knowledge , because they have grown up with the tools and techniques we lacked during their age . we need public studies , teaching , and practice tolerance – and to instill in our own children , in both through education and our own example . we entrust them with driving our country toward new levels of growth and development , which is why we have now nominated a cabinet minister of their age , and founded a special youth council . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of lives dead and millions more refugees in our countries that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry only fuel the fires of rage . we can not and will not allow this , much less prevent , in our own countries .
we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates produce massive credit expansion . to stem this burst of credit-driven demand with fiscal policy alone becomes impossible and an absurd effort . how then , do one tighten fiscal policy to generate more than 100 % of credit-fueled spending power in only three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004-2007 , and in a democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , like ireland ? to ask policymakers in a democracy with large surpluses to raise taxes , or to slash the benefits or public investment by the colossal magnitude required to stave off catastrophe strikes , it ’s to pass from reality . in higher-price countries than in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can not produce anything but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates .
back then , france ( under president mitterrand ) , and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would each together periodically press the case for closer integration , despite british unwillingness . but the bottom line is that constitutional amendments can be conducted only through a unanimous agreement , and a number of member governments , beginning with the united kingdom , would resist any rather overtly federalist agenda . as a result , the french government seems reluctant to force a confrontation with the british if a softer compromise is perceived in the future . today , however , france and germany are less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration looks less strong . the problem is that this type of evasion conspiracy may not work , and the significance of fischer ’s manifesto is that he is the first administration minister in office to be stated in public , even if he pretends to say it in a personal capacity .
enthusiasts describe it as a new hallmark of modern industrial policy , which can help push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . enthusiasts call it misguided efforts that establish more distortions and a retard growth strategy . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies , as practiced by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard , is strong . markets for innovation and fresh ideas work poorly , and governments can help to address those market failures . but rodrik and hausmann also demonstrate that get such policies right implies exacting requirements .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , much less populism more broadly . there is little that can be done to turn gender imbalances into a particular one . yet , while such a problem can not be “ “ “ “ solved ” by training , ” understanding that it could help to contain harm could help , not least by enabling leaders to disavow policies that are not helpful or exacerbating tensions . yet evolutionary psychology , which stresses females ’ competition , may add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt . those among the native-born population and education levels will always deteriorate further if they will have to compete with large numbers of younger male immigrants .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relations . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of us economic relationships . whereas i published a 2014 book on the codependent economic relations between the united states and china , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess the behavior of national economies . yet the similarities are striking , and the prognosis is all the more compelling as the world ’s two largest economies lashes into a dangerous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency happens at one of the relationship ’s extremes – – when the two partners draw more from each other than their own inner power .
throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être for europe ; in an era of age of globalization , it is america . that is the point at which many began to use the language that defines europe through distinction , indeed , to the american one ; europe as an anti-america . but just how is that identity of such identities to be defined ? comparing and contrasting between the two sides of the atlantic have a long pedigree . europe ’s cultural and american commerce , the european profundity , and its american materialism – these are archaic and weary themes .
without rising domestic saving , highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory , trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other trading partners . ironically , trump summoned trump to the same robert lighthizer , the veteran japan trade war of the 1980s to lead the charge against china . unfortunately , lighthizer seems as clueless about the underlying macro argument today as he has been back in the past . in both episodes , america has been in denial , bordering on delusion . with that trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers will be hit with the functional equivalent of a tax hike .
hollande ’s government and prime minister , jean-marc ayrault , have strong majorities at all levels of the governing and legislative levels , giving it a rare opportunity to act . the french center-left must lead in conceiving a vision for europe in which solidarity and equity are reinforced by long-term economic strength . if it succeeds in renewing the european model at home , italy may be able to project that success far more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in turn reinforcing trust and faith in the eu , particularly among the young generation . finally , along with the united kingdom among european countries , france retains more of a global role than germany has yet to acquire . while the un security council is outdated in its structure , it still plays a crucial , legitimizing role ; and france , rather than germany , is a member .
the third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be the process of boosting regional arab solidarity . how else can one explain that the shia revolt act in tunisia has led to the popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ? many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimizing the “ arab-israeli ness ” of the arab world . but the 2011 revolutions demonstrate that a strong feeling of identity , common language , and much shared history connects arabs together , despite the huge disparities in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . deep reform , focused on quality and performance , rather than project enrollment and diplomas , is necessary to transform the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a youthful labor force demands .
america 's largest tech firms are beginning to compete for their talents by offering paternity leave . who has the boss or company that better supports reconciling labor and family-obligation obligations ? only a third of the millennial men are convinced of traditional gender roles . attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift . who has the more elastic job ?
muted wage growth boost competitiveness , and underutilized labor and capital are redeployed . muted wage growth boost competitiveness , and underutilized labor and capital are re-deployed . how quickly this occurs depends , in part , on the private sector ’s flexibility and dynamism . but it also depends on government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function for weaknesses in aggregate demand and pursue reforms and investment that boost long-term growth prospects . if public-sector deleveraging is a complete policy of growth , and it is not , why is there so much attention about fiscal austerity and so little action ( as lip service ) about growth and employment ?
journalists report tragic stories of middle-class americans are losing their current jobs and homes , potentially placing their lives at risk without some social protection . who will pay a price for the expensive treatment of cancer if you lose the health insurance policy that came with your job ? “ the cities of high tents fill off the victims of the economic crisis , ” ” ” ” ” ” read one headline last month on the front pages of united america ’s massachusetts newspaper . by contrast , when many individual americans ’ personal situations are scrutinized through the european eyes , extreme individualism , which constitutes an essential part of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . it ’s wrong to assume , like some ultra-free marketers , that the absence of social protection makes you stronger .
warsaw : recently poland has experienced a typical -- -- -- -- -- -- political discourse . because of their dominance in parliament , the intransigence of the postcommunists on this point forced the other political parties participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution to kowtow to their positions . it has focused on whether " free " education should be made a constitutional right . only by raising matters to the level of the polish constitutional right , say the postcommunists , can a guarantee of a free and equality of access to education be preserved . a free , or , as its postcommunists advocates prefer to telephone , a " not paying for " learning , " means education in schools and state-owned universities ( but not in private schools ) .
at the same time , the private sector has a role to play in shifting toward unconventional water sources – a role that must extend far beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and that of italy . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities need to be mobilized , for example , through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water sources . best practices should take time , innovations identified and tested , and relevant knowledge and experience shared . the sustainable development goal , 6 , calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation , all levels of which we need to increase access to clean water and sanitation . sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation .
america ’s negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of roughly $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year-timeframe . as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal . so , what could be made of the may 19 deal ? given the magnitude of america ’s multilateral problem , this is largely insignificant objective , especially given the massive and ill-timed tax cuts and us federal spending hikes that america enacted over the past six months . beyond a truce in tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits .
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions of people out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as well as by serious adverse environmental damage . as a result , there now has two faces of two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class ; and those that have benefited so far from the region ’s rapid economic development ; and whose health and well-being are adversely affected by acute problems as air and water pollution . in short , a key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at lower but still enviable , rates – and improvement in the quality of life . what asia needs is strong , inclusive , green , and climate-friendly growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional “ south-south ” ” ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift .
berkeley – the central insight of macroeconomics is that was well known to john stuart mill during the first third of the nineteenth century : a large gap between supply and demand for pretty much every day that produces goods and services , and types of labor , if similarly large excess demand for financial assets is to be found . and this fundamental fact is a source of great difficulty , as it is now . a normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of the current value of commodities is not a serious problem , because it is balancing the excess demand with another currently produced by commodities . because industries that suffer from inadequate demand hire workers , industries benefit from excess demand hire them . the economy rapidly re-rebalances itself and thus returns to full employment – and does so with an upswing in employment and output that is better adapted to current consumer preferences .
initially , russia ’s liberals welcomed the case of the budanov regime as a sign that the country could address accusations that war crimes had been perpetrated in chechnya . last month , however , the us military prosecutor accepted colonel budanov ’s argument that he was temporarily insulting when he killed a girl and so acquitted budanov on charges of his murder . the outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov , had dismissed a prosecutor who appeared prepared to absolve a patriotic “ hero ” on all remaining charges . ( the gang rape charges had already been dropped for some unclear reason . ) the prosecution then began to speak to a young girl as chechen sniper , to the family of napoleon .
the good news is that the incoming administration may be drawing on the measures that were formulated during obama ’s tenure , but that have won little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics that has characterized much of obama at least eight years in office . such measures address imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation . but , of course , america does not exist in a vacuum . the marshall plan must recognize that , during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation patterns , have been distorted , and the worsening of wealth inequality . once it has taken place , its members will need to figure out how to compel trump to his plans to work for an economy that had – through necessity , not choices that were excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in thought of rethinking how big business had worked , and when the powers of such firms were supposed to be sapped . most people saw in consolidating smaller firms into fewer ones ; large firms as stabilizing developments that reward success ; and they allowed additional productive investment . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill , about passing into the us senate , does something similar and long overdue for banking . prior to the 1890 ’s , big business was widely thought to be more efficient and generally modern than small-business . in retrospect , breakthrough legislation – not only america ’s , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 .
tokyo – when was the last time to sit down and write a letter ? i do n’t mean a email or a text message ; nor would i count a well-dictated message to a machine or a personal arm . no , i mean the old-fashioned dear donald ” or dear hillary ” letter . the reason , i asked , was that 65,000 people had effectively written such “ letters ” to barack obama each week when he served as president of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a team of white house staffers would select ten letters each day to pass along with a us president that would then respond to them personally that evening .
but , ultimately , they would do precisely what they had done in each of the previous four elections – vote for a party that had proclaimed “ every man for himself ” to him . back in 1992 , john major went for re-election amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the consequent actual inflation . the economic determinists predicted that it did not stand a chance . they might say that they were ready to pay higher taxes for better public services and a more compassionate stance toward the poor . today , this pseudo-marxist theoretic theory of economic determinism has been refuted once and for all .
the transformational objectives and inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india or nelson mandela in south africa may have a major influence in outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . by contrast , america ’s foreign-policy formation is highly constrained by institutions like the us congress , the courts , and the us constitution . we would thus expect to have less opportunity in terms of transformational leadership . but even the us constitution is ambiguous about the responsibilities of congressional and president gore in us foreign policy . transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas a inspirational style is more likely to emerge in a hasty and disembodied social and political change .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization launched the tropical forestry action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . redd + has been created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the agreement that will govern its implementation is expected to be watched during the united nations climate change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable result of the two agreements has been , ironically , manufacturing re-ams of expensive consultancy news . but if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + and replacing it with a mechanism to address underlying sources of large-scale deforestation . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the most recent international effort to halt it , an initiative known as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely to be effective .
it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . but ethiopia presents a dilemma for anyone who cares about human rights and democracy . britain and some other european governments have responded with a standby crackdown by temporarily withholding aid . donald trump , a leader of the american house of foreign affairs committee , and ana gidei , a member of the european parliament from portugal and the eu ’s watch team in the 2005 elections , have sought to tie un humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct concerning press freedom and other human rights . cutting aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation ’s 80 million people .
old age must be viewed not simply as an unavoidable phase of life , but as opportunities for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive . to keep people working longer , keeping them healthy is critical . that is why the health-care industry must play a significant role in attempting to address the challenges of aging populations . to that end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts towards conditions that are prevalent among older patients , including chronic conditions like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem more effectively the pace of change in people ’s productivity and autonomy by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision .
such initiatives bring a broad array of public - and private-sector actors , including those of multilateral agencies , financing projects with deep environmental and social consequences . a second large transition-financing opportunity is in blurring finance or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . the tropical landscapes funding facility , developed in indonesia in collaboration with the un environment program , is a good example . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits . furthermore , the blurring approach helps scale and de-risk projects and optimize their financing .
countries with large current-account deficits and/or large short-term foreign-currency liabilities were among the most fragile . but even the better-performing ones , such as brazil , russia , india , and china , are now at risk of a hard landing . then panic spreads to credit markets , money and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries ’ financial systems and the corporate sector that had experienced credit-booms and borrowed short and in foreign currencies . initially , emerging markets were tied to that distress only when foreign investors started pulling their cash . certainly , many emerging markets now fear a severe financial crisis .
until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . almost three years ago , british voters did not really know what they had been doing when deciding by a narrow majority to leave the eu . but bercow and the eu ’s interventions opened up the entire new game , dramatically increasing the chance that brexit might not happen . that would be the foil financial-market speculators who have been betting on withdrawal , and is good news for both the united kingdom and the eu . and should a new referendum be held , british voters would probably have to decide between an disorderly brexit and the rest of the eu , because nobody would dare to offer a hard brexit as the alternative .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path of reform that has shaped the most dramatic economic transformation throughout recorded history . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were giving market incentives . mao zedong died two years earlier ; in 1976 , the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping his vision of economic development and modernization on the third plenum of the eleventh-track central committee , held in december 1978 . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , an portending an already-momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , whereby crushing burdens for state controls was relaxed .
jerusalem – in the wake of a misguided american policy , the threat of yet another military confrontation hangs like the dark cloud over the middle east . the united states ’ foes were strengthened , and iran – despite being branded as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” – was catapulted to regional hegemony . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel was , indeed , transformed itself into an open struggle for dominance in the middle east . iran could never achieve that achievement alone , certainly not in that short run . the result has been the rise of some startling , if not bizarrely , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas and american-backed , shia-dominated iraq are being confronted by israel , saudi arabia , and much of the other sunni arab states all feeling existentially threatened by iran ’s own ascendance .
the fascination with liberal freedom arrived in poland and elsewhere at a curious moment . throughout the postcommunist social revolution ( less-often noticed than not by extreme political and economic upheavals ) families and communities had been undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church had over-engaged in politics to assimilate . old social structures had been destroyed , socialist customs , and habits vanished overnight ; former norms and unwritten rules were abandoned . peoples were left to stand to resist gales of change by means . to be free but on their own is no easy feat , especially when dependency habits become ingrained .
at the same time , the crisis must not become an excuse to produce new institutional formats that jeopardize the delicate balance of power between different eu institutions , a balance that – through the appropriate adjustments – has been shown through the testing of time . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse to call into question the need to continue and complete the eu enlargement process . of course , a crisis does highlight the need to strengthen eu institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . we need the final , complete , ratification of the lisbon treaty to have the institutionally and internationally stronger europe that we need . broadening the eu ’s areas of liberty and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity – particularly throughout south-eastern europe – is in every european citizen ’s interest .
rather than eliminating that system , as expected , modi ’s government has augmented subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , raising sugar duties in order to discourage foreign competition , raising the percentage of sugar-based ethanol that must be blended with gasoline . his motivation is not difficult to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help it stay out of maharashtra ’s control , india ’s main sugar-producing state , from behind the upcoming state assembly elections . that objective explains another policy reversal , just as it did . a commonly cited example of the outgoing government ’s alleged economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policy . mighty sugarcane cooperatives , led by major upa followers , supposedly drove the government to mend extravagant prices and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to total over-production .
berlin – germany ’s social democrats ’ ( spd ) existential crisis can no longer be treated like a typical party crisis . the party captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional elections earlier this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will lose still more support , if not as dramatically as it did in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but with the spd sinking , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays the dominant role .
while russia alone will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s significance was obvious : it would be better for all parties if that money were brought home and invested in the national economy . to achieve this end , russia must create a secure and attractive investment climate . so , how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment as long as ordinary russians keep their savings – a $ 50 billion $ 100 billion , according to most estimates – domestically ? russia ’s people need to be convinced of the country ’s political stability – that , for example , no one will propose nationalization , as occurred repeatedly during the eight months that i was prime minister . most importantly , if we are to reverse capital flight , the government must arrange individual savers to deposit money safely and withdraw it on the demand .
without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events throughout europe during the fall of 1989 never could have been possible . for with gorbachev and his singular courage , more and more people in east germany took to heart , and stopped stoking fears about their repressive regime . they realized that east german realities were not fixed in stone after all ; that change was achievable , which many courageous dissidents and proponents of civil rights trapped behind the berlin wall demanded for so long a time . their commitment against the injustices of the ex-communist regime presages one of the best chapters in germany 's history . opening hungary 's borders , which fall and quest for refuge by east germans in prague ’s embassies and warsaw has already stirred up communist and stasi rule by its foundations .
responsibility-sharing , the modern international system for protecting refugees , is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least able to cope . what is needed is a robust strategy with a global reach , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , aid communities , businesses , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , sports , and arts . as a result , some , though relatively speaking , rather than many , undertake long – and often perilous – journey to the developed world . and yet , as they arrive on their rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome they get is rekinder , as manufactured panic over a supposedly massive “ dangerous ” influxes of outsiders closes the space for humane , pragmatic responses . it is time to restart global efforts to protect refugees .
munich – the euro crisis has gone through six phases , so far in another way . the seventh phase of the last crisis is one of enhanced moral hazard , stemming from the rollover of debt . currently , markets remain calm ; but that is only the beginning of the seventh phase of a crisis during which europe becomes mired in debt . it is worth remembering them because they are showing how policymakers stumbled along , trying to square the fires without keeping up with the view of where its chosen path led them . the sequence so far has been just as follows : the sequence has been … .
between 1985 and 2005 , the boomsters made ten-year projections that exaggerated the odds of large positive changes in the two financial markets ( for example , the dow jones industrial average of $ 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as the middle east ’s tranquility and dynamic growth ) . they assigned probabilities of 65 % to the bleak scenarios that materialized just 15 % of the time . second , again , as skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay penalties for being “ wrong . ” during the same period , doom-and-doom had performed an even steepest , an exaggeration of the chances of adverse change on every part of the same venues that boomsters positive , plus a few more ( i still anticipate the impending disintegration in canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , and sudan ) . they assigned probabilities of 70 % on the dismal scenarios that materialized just 12 % of gdp .
the out campaign ’s main economic argument – that britain ’s vast trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from a breakdown in trade relations – is flatly mistaken . britain would need to negotiate access to the european single market for its service industries , whereas the eu ’s producers would automatically enjoy a virtually unlimited right to sell whatever it wanted in britain under the wto ’s rules . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member , or simply in the wto . indeed , the economic challenges of brexit would be overwhelming . margaret thatcher was the first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services , not just finance , but also laws , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so on , makes eu membership critical to the single market .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues such as the separation of powers and judicial autonomy and elucidates the proper relationship between politics and religion . for this , understanding the historical context of the current crisis is vital . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the former system ’s secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the military ’s power and bureaucracy to check an elected government . in effect , the turkish military , with its support from the judiciary , explicitly intervened in the civilian government explicitly in 1960 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of protecting secularism . in response , a variety of religious groups , including the gülen movement , have encouraged its adherents to take positions within both the bureaucracy and the army .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union imploded . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or grexit ” ) , as well as the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . at the deeper level , however , what was at stake was the role of the europe of its most populous and economically most powerful country . what changed that night was the germany that europeans knew at the end of world war ii . europeans had been living in a different kind of eu since then .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab military interventions ’ history , unlike those conducted by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya , do not contain any promising precedent at all . by the end of 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser sent 70,000 troops in yemen to support a us-led republican coup against royalist forces . more generally , such interventions were aimed at empowering some proxy political force over its army and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian catastrophe or institutionalizing a post-conflict resolution mechanism . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . despite using an prohibited chemical weapons against the yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 , first in intra-arab conflict , egypt has failed to achieve its aims .
sadly , however , that norm will be applied only to very large multinational companies , and reports will not be publicly available , depriving civil society of an indispensable tool of transparency . beps have been an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies that multinational corporations use . it has started sharing among country-by-country corporate tax authorities with reports on such firms ’ profits and tax payments . the reform process has been spearheaded by oecd countries , opening up to developing countries only after this initial package had been unveiled . today , there are 125 countries , comprising a group called the “ inclusive framework . ”
pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net business income ( by a very top share in advanced countries ) . likewise , while limiting deductibility of net interests for corporations , as many other advanced countries have done , would undercut the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt-financing efforts , raising the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not expand the tax base sufficiently to finance the rate cut to just 28 % . reducing the tax preferences of non-corporate-businesses ( such as partnerships ) that pass their income through to their owners ’ individual returns would also expand the corporate-income tax base . a few of these entities are very large and lucrative , enjoying the same legal benefits as corporations .
these conditions govern any possibility of forging a security plan that would receive the backing of all factions , including hamas . israel ’s disengagement plan presents israel ’s evacuation of gaza settlements as the end of its 37 years of occupation . but simultaneously , israel insists that it will lack the attributes of gaza ’s sovereignty , and would continue to be guided by the existing arrangements covering most aspects of its security and civilian administration . that means that the israeli military would continue to enter gaza at will and maintain control over border crossings , us airspace and territorial waters . nor will the israeli army withdraw from the land strip along palestinian-egyptian border .
in others , such as greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines and sri lanka , the decline exceeded 10 % . in fact , since the 1980s , most oecd countries have experienced large declines in their agricultural employment . almost 60 years later , america ’s agricultural employment rate peaked at 53 % of total employment . today , it is less than 3 % , and even lower than the us rate . in somalia , like portugal , malaysia , sweden , turkey , and indonesia , the share of agricultural employment declined by over 20 % .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers hope that voter turnout will usher in a period of stability and calm by borrowing popular legitimacy for the government . but occasionally it is the democracy that works best by reluctant to participate . the upcoming elections , to be held under the illegal provisional constitutional command ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s emergency on november 3 , is such a case in point , which is why my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote . to be sure , an electoral contesting would provide my party with a tremendous opportunity to take on issues to people . in fact , my party ’s support has been growing , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second-most popular in a frontier province and gaining ground in every other province .
just as bernanke and others wish otherwise – and , like bickering politicians – seek to dump policy responsibility for the rest of us , central banks lack the proper tools to handle the unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address the medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . and it is a good deal of the official sector that pays more attention to joblessness – a very good thing . yet , sadly , that shift will not solve a problem that is eats away at any society ’s social fabric . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at an increasing cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together .
most of china ’s internationally shared water resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is china ’s new “ one belt , one road ” initiative . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released early this year , is calling for a new wave of dam projects on its plateau . moreover , china recently slashed the brahmaputra river flow , the lifelines of bangladesh and northern india to build a dam as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . in fact , china ’s dam builders are targeting most of the international river that flows from chinese territories .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action is critical to prevent the so-called great recession from turning into even worse than it has been . much to its credit , the united states has eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii . for the last 70 years , multilateralism served the world well . back then , it was the global financial system that had been tottering . today it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy .
at the same time , schools were being multiplying as attendance have been surged . other public services have been improving as well , with parents believing that their children are leading a more prosperous life than they and previous generations have . this was certainly true of my parents , who had sacrificed much to raise their nine children . they were not happy when , after the 1880 ’s , their older sons became communists , strongly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , as president bashar al-assad ’s father , did . but this was not a farfetched transformation in a city where people were assuming new identities , such as nasserist , ba’serist , ba’serist , islamist , or communist .
and now policymakers must also devote greater attention to the health workforce itself , ensuring that it is properly educated and trained for the challenges that await the region . today ’s training programs in the gcc ’s national health system do not keep nearly enough to focus on innovation or systems thinking for improving efficiency and efficiency . this results in high turnover as a result of overwork and an increased need for foreign-born health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers were right to focus on increasing access and quality-of-life subsidies . but the equitable distribution of health-care services across indigenous and migrant populations often involves a thorny policy issue .
“ well , stupid ” and old country , here we are again faced with a heavy test , ” ” he said . if that army collapses , algeria [ and ] france collapses . the decisive moment came when de gaulle , in the military uniform , went on tv to demonstrate his mastery of a new middle class . if the state bowed in front of the challenge it faced , “ france would n’t do more than a poor , shattered toy adrift on the ocean of insecurity , ” he warned . insisting that self-determination was the only way forward ; he called on the army to reject even a passive association with a rebellion and mandate to re-impose public order .
these divisions will allow the new force to emerge in iranian society . so all means that they should be able to reach out to iranian society at all levels . just as the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad was just a tool among supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad has appointed a vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( albeit he later retracted his appointment ) . iranian students should be urged to visit and study in asian universities , where he would discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about the future − which may well cause them to reflect on why their young iranians do n’t share this optimism . what we already know with certainty is that the regime is split .
common funding , with all members paying a share of their gdp , is one tool that can be used to achieve more equitable burden sharing . traditionally , nato applied a “ cost lie where ” policy : every member picked up every cost for the operational contribution that it made to alliance operations . during the previous few years , nato ’s funding policy had been updated to allow common funding to be used as an inducement to lend certain theater-level enables capabilities , such as medical facilities , handling soldiers and supplies , or intelligentsia . how could one evaluate an contribution from light infantry to provide critical enablers , such as helicopter - or air-to-air refueling tankers ? finally , nato has invoked a “ cost lie where they fall ” policy : every member picked up every cost for the operational contribution that it made to alliance operation .
moreover , one might argue that easy money itself has contributed to the unexpectedly potent disindeflationary forces that were seen in recent years . indeed , owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply grew as “ zombie ” firms proliferated . meanwhile , aggregate demand was restrained by runaway debt headwinds , and yet another consequence of easy monetary conditions . given these conditions , continued insistence on monetary easing seems especially ill advised . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least contemplate rethinking the fundamental assumptions underpinning their policies .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of late last year , the regime — once central to america ’s strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable from america , which drops powerful projections that there are alternatives for saudi military bases , even saudi arabia ’s oil reserves . indeed , while the saudis were not included with president bush the “ axis of evil , ” some american policymakers now view the country as the “ kernel of evil . ” al-qaeda ’s terrorist networks are viewed as arising directly from the fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines that constitute an integral part of the saudi regime . thus , among a poor set of options , the least bad seems cooperation with america . yet cooperation with the us may not gain the al-sauds far , because saudi relations with america are strained to breaking point .
while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these certain clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as the traumatic dissociative amnesia ” left a large victims ’ minority incapable of remembering their trauma , precisely because it was so overwhelmingly terrifying . how the victims would remember trauma is the most controversial topic facing psychology and psychiatry today . a number of clinical trauma theorists tend to believe that battle, rape , and other fearsome experiences are seemingly engraved in minds , never to be forgotten . yet such clinical trauma theorists do not argue that either repressed ” or “ dissociated ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign . others disagree , arguing that minds can protect themselves by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , thus making it harder for victims to remember their fearsome experiences until they have been safe to do so many years later .
as a child , mastering the brutal art of elé belé was important . in calcutta , where some younger kid had come along , insisting that he be involved while he was gambling himself , we would let the new kid in , but only after whispering with each other ’s ears the word , elé belé . when a new khmer rouge arrived , accompanied by a doting mother , we could convey another with the mere eye that the hbo would be a woman belé belé . elé belé is a player who thinks that he is involved but , true to the truth , is only going through the motions . everybody knew the ultimate goal scored by him was not a true objective .
northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , has argued that america ’s economy is bound to slow , because today ’s technological innovations will not spur growth on the scale that it has had in the past . the financial times ’ stock exchange all-world value index rose by almost 22 % year on year in 2017 , its best performing since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 . as the growth pessimism of recent years talk shows , some of the warnings that have been made in recent years seem outdated . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers has received much attention for his argument that the world risks slipping back into “ secular stagnation , ” ” ” ” ” because the interest rate required to generate desired investment in line with desired savings was less than zero . yet , while the near-zero lower bound no longer seems like a binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern ; one of which concerns debt levels .
india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to re-redirect the natural flow of any riverside , or lessening the transboundary river flows . but even a joint expert-level mechanism – established in 2007 only for “ interactions and cooperation ” on hydrological data – has proved very small value . in fact , china has been damping out most of the international rivers flowing from tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already being threatened by global warming . the only hydro-engineering rivers so far have performed the indus , whose basin collapses largely in india and pakistan , as well as the salween that flows to burma and thailand . local authorities in yunnan province are still contemplating damming the salween in the quake-prone upstream area .
perhaps , but most students of us monetary policy view quantitative easing as textbook policy by pulling the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” thereby avoiding the onset of sustained deflation that would exacerbate debt burdens . as for china ’s renminbi , it still maintains a strong political exchange-rate regime . ultimately , currency chaos is the safest bet on all , with sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . ultimately , china ’s rapid gdp growth will need to reflect the substantial rise in its currency , its domestic price level , or both . but , by 2011 , the majority of equilibration is likely to take hold , via high inflation .
which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? both india and japan are longstanding us-led stakeholders , emphasizing in their own domestic relationships over the values that america espouses , like the need to maintain a stable regional balance of power , respect for territorial and maritime status quo , and uphold freedom of navigation . with america distracted by its other strategic challenges , not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers , notably an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan – are the best candidates for the job . moreover , they have demonstrated their shared desire to uphold the existing asian order . without such cooperation , they would be constrained solely by domestic factors , like an faltering economy , rising social discontent , a worsening environmental crisis , or vicious politics .
but , given that climate change poses an even more far-reaching – and serious – challenge , the world must not waver in its setting and commitment to addressing it . at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their commitments , under the framework of a convention , to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to tackle climate change effectively . the global financial crisis has , no doubt , exacerbated the call for action on climate change . with sustainable development and measurable , reportable , and verifiable support in funding , technology and capacity-building , the world will take nationally appropriate mitigation actions . moreover , the right mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not weigh on war . florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim had abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president – leaving a pillar of the un-led international financial order or forward guidance . kim is about to join a private equity firm , where he believes that he can “ make the biggest impact ” on major global issues such as climate change . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
a <UNK> ter-money version would have been buying zero-interest-rate government bonds that will not be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over every time they are mature . that is , arguably , what the bank of japan now does . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has already said that directly underwrite the budget deficit is not an option . nonetheless , he has initiated a policy of replacing boj government bonds to its balance sheets as soon as they have mature , while steadily increasing the volume of government debt on the books of the central bank . that comes after years of statements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money offered ways to beat deflation ( with which japan has struggled for decades ) .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger at gop elites . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to have displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . accordingly , his voters ’ average annual income , at around $ 72,000 , is well above america ’s median of $ 56,000 . media outlets provided just as $ 2 billion worth of free coverage , helping him to seize and hold leads to the polls , as well as the majority of primaries . his supporters resemble the tea partiers : overwhelmingly elderly , rural , middle class , and white .
they become soulless bodies , and a moral circle closes to exclude them . our reactions to soulless bodies are well illustrated in a story told descartes after he died . descartes , it was known , had an illegitimate daughter , linguine , who had died when she was just five years old . as soon as a group of people seems to be viewed as disgusting , the attention shifts away from them as morally individuals . according to the story , descartes was so locked in the grief that he created an automaton , a mechanical doll , built upon himself identical to his dead daughter .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reactions summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy our country ’s peace and stability . we are not going to change our course ; we are n’t going to change our course . if these bombings are intended to send a message , i will sweep it away and crush it under my legs . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate nervous reactions in restricting the democratic right . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi , who oppose khamenei ’s authority directly . mousavi has to carry out carefully his legal campaign , without compromising on the trust that came from iranians ’ majority . he must stand by and including his two principal demands : relification of the election , and establish an impartial committee to govern the government ’s violations of the election law . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not win the presidency , but will continue to represent the hope of a sunni majority that differs dramatically with his government . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader holding on power will be shaken .
but although yanukovych was thinking primarily about his own self-interest , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . at the same time , there is something even more fundamental than one ’s own reputations . imagine that , faced with that question , he had in mind the alternative of a full-throated lifestyle ( with a private zoo and a pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably on the substantial salary to which he was entitled while knowing that he rules on integrity and does his best to improve the lives of ukraine ’s citizens . imagine , then , that he had stopped asking himself what would make him so happier . a political leader has greater opportunity than almost anyone to help the people , and that yanukovych ’s top priority should have been there .
two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , which is officially part of korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korean puppet ” for grave violations of the north-south joint declaration and pushes north-south ties to the worst catastrophe . indeed , the visit of incheon comes within a context of blundering messages . it remains to be seen whether it is striving to engage the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained way , or whether dprk officials and diplomats are simply putting a good face forward to divert international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear-armed weapons-monger and human-rights violator . two days before the north korean delegation came , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , which is officially part of the korean worker party , has denounced the “ south korean puppet ” for grave violations and pushing north-south ties to the worst catastrophe . it remains to be seen whether it is attempting to engage with the rest of the world in a constructive and derogatory process , or whether dprk officials and diplomats are simply putting a good face in order to divert international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear-armed weapons-monger and human-rights violator .
yes , people will specialize , too . but specialization at the individual level effectively leads to higher-level diversification . everybody benefits from each of us become good at different things , and exchanging our knowhow with others . it is unefficient in both a dentist and an advocate . when an idea is both an intuitively true and really false , it is often because it is true on a single level , but not a level at which it is being invoked .
at the same time , civil-society groups operating in and around test-site villages have not been adequately consulted on target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted ; the clearer it became that local people had not engaged in a genuinely participatory debate about the target malaria project ; let alone extended their informed consent . that means that consent would have had to be secured substantially beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for limited time only , getting unrestricted access toon point , the great picture ; and the ps archive , plus our annual magazine , for just $ 75 . juxtava is intended to spread indefinitely , with mosquitoes , particularly females , capable of surf air currents at relatively high altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where any winds could blow them hundreds of kilometers . that choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders had already decided to pursue a release.reinforcing this outcome , after the un convention ; target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between the requirement of free , prior , and informed consent into the context of medical research on individuals ( where that is demanded ) ; and in the public-health context . on the contrary , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitoes so that they could have stopped until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had received fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent reflects its own rhetoric that eschews
new york – today ’s global labor markets are interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the u.s. are in effect competing with the young chinese and indians for jobs . they do n’t protest much anymore , but many end up in jail . many more have simply become discouraged and drop out of the labor force altogether : not in school , not in jobs , and not in looking for work . china ’s lower-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports and communications ) have set the standard of competitive efficiency globally .
in fact , article 7 of the treaty of lisbon stipulates the suspension of a rogue eu member state of voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” ” requires unanimity by all eu member states , everybody knows that it will never again be used . but the weakening of the rule of law is not only a domestic issue in hungary or poland . in fact , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that it serves modern-day rule-breakers ’ interests , by all but guaranteeing not to punish them . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , and encouraging other populists to pursue his own authoritarian goals and , with the eu , to boot .
in iraq , bush once again pursued a unilateralist agenda by saying that there was incontrovertible evidence of a link with al queda and that saddam had weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lies . detection technologies made it clear that iraqis did not have nuclear weapons , as chief un inspector hans blix put it . bush was possible , too , that he did not believe what he was reading . it is possible that bush was reading those reports , but that they were beyond his comprehension .
returnees are present in many other asian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia into the maldives and uzbekistan . all of these groups are spurred by a nihilistic rage born of hostility toward non-sunnis and rejection of modernity . alas , as sri lanka ’s bombings and other attacks in asia demonstrate , defeating isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , too , because batthardened combatants with operational training to stage savage attacks are now going home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how an obscure local group was capable of carrying out sophisticated , late-stage strikes on the three churches and with three hotels , using military-grade explosives . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut through the us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt the safety of asia , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
denver – angelina jolie a novel film , “ “ in the lands of blood and honey , ” ” ” ” ” is about the ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . already , the film has won two awards and an emerging box-office success , attesting to persistent interest – and perhaps mystery – that the balkans holds for international audiences who have been as horrified as they were puzzled by the events of the 1990 ’s . for those of us who have lived and worked in the region during that turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh blows . as jolie ’s film so ably demonstrates , neither the international community nor local leaders have made a concerted effort to avoid bloodshed . one exception – perhaps the only exception – has been kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president , who died while slumping on new year old day , by 94 .
beyond shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also start relocating jobs . moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . there are signs of falling us foreign investment , and this contributes to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . there are also signs that uk-based companies began to unleash their brexit contingency plans after a protracted period of waiting , planning , and more waiting . and that process will likely accelerate , at some point , even if british prime minister theresa may manages to secure her proposed exit deal through parliament .
he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby empowering its citizens . and he views globalization as a good thing , but he understands that it must be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . proponents of local decision-making whenever possible and efficient , but promotes national-level decision-making when that is due ; the key is that processes should be flexible , allowing for citizen participation . at the moment , opinion polls consistently behave wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in right-wing support among left-wing voters outside of the socialist party . but , if macron qualifies for a second-round run-off , he poses a larger threat to le pen than the outright left-wing nominee .
the european project is a realist responsive to globalization and its challenges . it has been initiated to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” “ promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and the european social model . ” to have achieved these goals , europeans now want to make a positive contribution to world development . an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was apparent in a collective mourning and a outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on that enormous potential to shape the rationale of global solidarity . this is not a nostalgia for past glory .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did n’t one see it coming ? ” krugman ’s cheerful response is that the new keynesians had looked the other way forward . they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual ” issues ” – that is , it did n’t really demand that they reassess their theories . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data collection . ”
the same can not be said for the kaczyński.another major difference is that east europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond fears of physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this distinction is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks by abstract liberal institutions , such as freedom of speech and justice independence.this should not have been overly surprising . after all , “ liberalism ” in eastern europe is a western import . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is also a higher focus on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than a political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s postcommunist states , the left is either very weak or wholly absent from the political mainstream . notwithstanding trump and brexit phenomena , america and the uk have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism .
as for the eurozone , we seem to have been overly optimistic , even as we foresaw the decline in potential growth to 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters are putting the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . unless germany can shift to a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will likely turn out to be right . but that is a huge “ if ” . yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s services sector remains robust .
human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s working-age population would probably be permitted to move freely within the eu only after a long transition period , possibly not until 2025 . in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an blowup in the financial cost entailed by turkey ’s accession . immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . given the supposed upswing in turkey ’s economy and its declining birthrate , experts predict a figure of close to 2.7 million immigrants by this point . the magnitude of these transfers would nonetheless depend on the eu ’s financial policies at the time of admission , the outcome of the accession negotiations , and the economic developments in turkey .
later evangelist john concludes that , because jews deny the christian messiah they must be “ sons of the devil . ” more than most people realize , gospels are treating recalcitrant jews as their own messiah – as perpetrators of an offense that lives on every generation . anti-semites often cite the passage of matthew ’s recurrent lie to explain away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples come at night and stole it , while we have sex . ” matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie in explaining away from the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his blood comes on us and on our children . ” just as whites attribute extraordinary black-level sexual powers to human beings , the instinct in the christian west is to treat jews like the masters of extraordinary powers – including the power to kill off deities and control over world finance .
thailand ’s decision last may to slash interest rates had made it a safe gamble to bet on qe , the opening salvo in the crisis . encouraged by the illusion of a robust reserve position , the thai central bank took away the country ’s speculators -- and lost . but , with too little macho , overly loose politics , and provincialism , reform never took place . so the notion that “ this country is different , ” ” ” that the rules of global finance did not apply , turned out to be utter nonsense . by the time crisis hit , thailand seemed to be pretty much like any others that had turned their desperation on the imf .
that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are ill equipped : they may arouse public conscience , but they can not formally commit governments . so the drive to nail down the concessions that the protests had extracted , the hour of governments arrived . until now , only other eu governments can do the same . it was not least through the attempt of the protest movements that france has now made concessions on both these counts . but how can such concessions be provided under duress ?
at the same time , the majority of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight . as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and social sciences ) has breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he has complained that “ too many native russians ” are now studying these subjects . yet , because the regime is forced to dedicate more resources to silencing an informed person , a small majority will suffer economically . compounding the challenge , the cohort of informed elites in russia is growing .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will not weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency to a strategic end is their capacity to do so , if they so desirable . many are wondering whether china will react to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war with the us . if it does , the world should be calling its bluff , the same way it is . china ’s currency policy has come to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods .
my professional focus is on economics , so i emphasized the role that growth will play . but that has clearly not been the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . besides contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , immigrants also often supplement native-born skills , helping them earn more . the fact that developed countries are changing culturally also matters , perhaps even more so . in the us , for example , the foreign-born share of the population has risen from more than 5 % in 1960 to roughly 14 % today .
the plo ’s old guard – that men like yasser arafat and hamas , who led a liberation treaty from exile and returned home with the oslo accords , dominating the palestinian political landscape up to now . after departing from the scene , palestinian leaders who had been born under occupation and spending time in israeli prisons will most likely fill a power vacuum . that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change of leadership – and , more important , a result of the transformation of post-oslo politics . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the working-class leader at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the main arab organizers of the first intifada , resulting in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . he was arrested and sentenced to a lengthy prison term on charges that he waged a second intifada that began two years earlier , ordering some of his military onslaught .
judging by putin ’s most recent address to the parliament , his regime is acutely aware of the danger posed by populist nationalists . the regime is likely to attempt to counter this eruption of right-wing nationalism , while preserving its heavy-handed statist rhetoric . but , to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to assume its own stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . this will not be easy with a regime based on the twin pillars of bureaucracy and security apparatus . these are the key ingredients in a nationalist duma that seems to appeal to russians nowadays .
tsai has called for the share of renewables to rise to more than 20 % over the next eight years , with capacity now mainly come from solar and offshore wind-power generation . with renewables accounting for more than 5 % of the country ’s gdp , that new load would easily replace the electric electricity generated by a country ’s six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , too , tsai is currently equally committed . last year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of june ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan a nuclear-free place by 2025 . this novel load would easily replace the country ’s coal-generated electric electricity .
rudolf diesel ’s first engine , intended in the late 1800s , went on to fuel derived from peanut oil . in recent decades , it was not until biofuels that regained their original appeal , owing to their efforts to secure affordable energy , generate incomes , and mitigate the dependency of which ford warned . as the production of those fuels grows , we will require the policies , programs , and the capacities that ensure they are used sustainably , with no distorting food markets or compromising food security that will always be the first priority . henry ford once shied away from florida in his hope to buy tracts from land to plant sugar cane , convinced that the united states is not going to tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels or dependency implicit in importing oil to produce gasoline . a series of biofuels pioneers would probably have been surprised by how little they contribute to total global fuel-supply supplies today .
others have fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as a barbarian society surviving on horse sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd georgia ; the future prime minister ; and told audiences that he was more fearful of german sausage than germany ’s naval navy . in towns , showcases in shop windows illustrated the costs of specific tariffs to ordinary consumers . one reason that free trade defeated free-trade protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to humans through their emotions and identities , rather than just their aspirational interest in more wealth and cheap food . many of the british believed in a “ free-trade empire . ” liberals and radicals organized travel shows , color posters , and political entertainment .
it would transform member countries into debtors and lenders , stoking even deeper animosity . an inordinately lax regulatory environment has proved fatal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and bank bonds . when the property bubble burst , it left in its wake the woefully expensive economies that lost competitiveness . attempting to create the european equivalent of the dollar and impose a fiscal union at the top of it , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fail . europeans should now use the calm between storms fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union from the ground up .
indeed , the latter now account for more than 15 % of gdp . competing asian economies will need to stabilize before they can push their exports aggressively . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with a return to floating exchange rates . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness can be lessened . the hits chinese exports are likely to take the form of the region into its currency depreciations , nevertheless , unlikely to be felt instantly .
moreover , there are genuine disagreements within america ’s bureaucracy at a time when it is attempting to assess the threat that al qaeda in mali poses for us interests . for europe , this state of affairs is worrying at two counts . symbolically , it means backing initial and notable efforts that are undertaken by others . operationally confined to isr and does not involve ground troops . following from above , therefore , has operational and symbolic meanings .
on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households but by institutions like pension funds , they can be well identified and taxed . typically , this is what happened in europe . the private sector had large foreign assets , whereas the government had about an equal volume of foreign liabilities . even so , argentina went bankrupt , because wealthy argentines spirited their assets outside the country , and thus out of the reach of the us government , whereas poor argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to please the claims of foreign creditors . that analysis suggests that the “ excessive [ current-account ] imbalances ” pattern of the kind that is to be introduced under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
the stars of barcelona , real madrid , chile , and milan are household names . disappointed by their respective political leaders , algerians sort of unity stemmed largely from their shared liking of soccer . but exposure to foreign broadcasters also means that many disillusioned algerians are looking to escape to italy , france , or germany as their only jobs hope and a decent life . will social and economic reform be implemented in order to ensure equitable distribution of the country ’s vast oil and gas wealth ? will the coming months deliver genuine change to algeria ?
the most likely explanation is a combination of either he and bush pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy that urges tax cuts to cut revenues , thereby inducing the public sector to run for themselves . lower interest rates worked , but not nearly enough because they boosted investment , but because it led households to refinance their mortgages , and fueled a housing-price bubble . in short , like greenspan ’s departs , he left behind an american economy encumbered by high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets , a legacy that already contributed to global financial instability . it is not yet clear what led greenspan to advocates of tax cuts . was it massive economic misjudgment or currying favor with the bush administration ?
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for future political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide of 1994 . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants toward europe . land-related issues will continue to threaten global stability , particularly as the climate-change-related effects exacerbate existing problems . a historic drought may have created conditions for syria ’s civil war .
because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita to a carbon dividend . more on their own , a carbon dividend would distribute money between predominantly wealthy polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income – low polluters , all while cutting carbon emissions . on their own , it would represent a smart step in the right direction , one that does n’t invite the “ yellow vest ” response . more to the point , they would pay in far greater proportion than they would get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would return even more than they had they had billed . but do n’t let anyone tell you that ’s a silver bullet .
rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing europe and the ecb are sending flawed signals . a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership , as is accommodative trade unions . a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership , as is accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel does not offer speeches by attacking a strong europe and the european central bank ’s price-stability mandate . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb , and has left germany ’s trade unions and companies aware that they will have to live with a strong currency and anti-inflationary monetary policies . this is not to say that merkel is a free-market capitalist – little evidence of that .
because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to its own security . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a bad idea ; and , beyond that , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu – particularly in trump ’s own age . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it concerns the rule of law , integration , and peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ interests . just as there can be no french security without germany , no german security can be left without poland .
indeed , very few of those receiving ect receive no benzodiazepines as well , which creates significant autobiographical memory problems when legal reasons are on their own , and antipsychotic drugs causing difficulties with lists of names or telephone numbers and other comparable issues . the same is true for antidepressant drugs generally . there is no dispute that ect can cause a shorter-term loss of memory . but critics have found it hard to demonstrate memory or any other cognitive problem that endure beyond three months . nor can enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and the inability to remember the lists be readily attributed to ect , because ect is rarely passed at its own .
but no government has found cacs adequate in favor of resolving domestic restructurings . if a cac required by , say , 75 % of holders of each bond class , the vultures would purchase 26 % of only one bond class , and block the whole restructuring . if they were , there would be no need for domestic bankruptcy legislation that spells out issues like precedence and fair therapy . so why should we think they would be suffice in a far more sophisticated world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? in particular , cacs suffer from a “ aggregation ” problem .
we arrived at this tipping point precisely because both russia and the west spent more than a decade seeking unilateral advantage and eschewing negotiated compromises . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . the eu should intensify the case for an open dialogue and tough negotiating process , precisely what has long been missing from western policy toward ukraine ’s crisis , and toward the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . holding talks in the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial investment in political capital in durable times . a quickly brexit will not be an option ; it will be a solution .
but it also represents a global gold standard in a number of fields , including technology , defense , and research and development . america ’s size and power grew only very slowly , until the 1930s , when a new deal – comprising federal programs , public works projects , and financial-sector reforms and regulation – was implemented in response to the great depression . america ’s federal government expanded anew during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by a new deal backed by unionization and indigenous ownership ) . its government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience instilled in citizens and leaders amass liberty and local autonomy .
isis has faced more than 230 deaths and some 700 injured poor , while turkey has endured more than 220 fatalities and some 900 injuries . the accurate number of european fighters receiving training from isis and returned home remains unknown . isis has allegedly trained 400-600 fighter jets for “ outsourcing ” involving urban guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter-security , and personnel . abdelhamid abaaoud , which has waged the november 2015 paris attacks , has claimed that he is one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . isis has so far hit france and turkey the hardest .
in bangladesh , for example , brac schools run female school teachers ( which is key to increasing girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools in terms of curriculum learning outcomes . nonetheless , a dearth of qualified female teachers makes scaling up such efforts difficult to impossible . to account for learning crises in much of the developing world , governments and development agencies should seek more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to unlock its doors to innovative ngo models , such as the brac ’s community-based education program . women account for just one-third of all teachers in afghan primary and secondary school , partly owing to extraordinarily low female literacy .
these economic shocks have exposed the enormous costs for each country ’s sectarian-based political system . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state expenditures to fund regime allies and their clients , rather than benefiting the entire population . such regimes dominated every country ’s private sector through cronyism , not only by extracting and distributing rents to “ clients , ” but also by blocking the emergence of autonomous-actions that could finance resistance movements . as a result , capital and skills were misallocated , the business climate deteriorated , and competition , innovation , and growth suffered . and protesters fueled by economic grievances were emboldened by the improvement in broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-down of the war in syria .
this raises the old question of whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union or at least stronger and more binding fiscal rules ( the maastricht deficit commitments are all too easy to violate ) . will europe ’s second decade follow as succeeded as the first ? currently , it boldly tends to emphasize the disparate , even discordant , fiscal reactions now being embraced by european union governments . to that we need to add coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies as deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to national guarantees and insurance across the euro zone . but shrinking flexibility in response to economic shocks will certainly test this .
but imagine a world in which textbooks are quiescent and corrected with a legion of contributors . such a world was only a dream ten years ago , and a long time ago was no longer . nowadays , linguistic barriers prevent many immigrant parents from aids their children with their homework because the texts are only in english . today , the pluto remains on the list of planets on sciences textbooks and who know how long it will take for it to be rid of it . but imagine a world in which current textbooks are adapted to many different styles of learning and translate into myriad languages .
indeed , so proponents of this school would frequently add , with china still not yet ready for democracy . if only they could have taken the position of it , they would have been up to china . one powerful school of thought that emerged almost as the beginning of the end of the killing in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders were reckless . a violent crackdown was supposed to have been made inevitable . by provoking a regime , student derailed any chance of a slow political reform that their more moderate elders had meticulously set in train .
yet international donors are devoting their feet both in meeting their existing commitments and in making new ones . delivery problems abound in war zones , but not everywhere . and all aid accomplished in the world will not stop the killing . it is now too late for non-military requests for un peacekeeping to have a lot of effect , though the security council threats the international criminal court prosecution – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . but what of the export-led response options still adequately favored by many policymakers and pundits ?
by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is essentially driving them to china ’s arms . for example , when trump calls for a reduction in america ’s own military involvement in the middle east , he portrays obama as just a echoing obama . yet , by reneging on america ’s nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war in the region more likely . trump ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . and , by retreating from his trip to alleviate north korea ’s international isolation while gaining almost nothing in return , he has consolidated china ’s position in east asia .
merchandise need not carry through the capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with the associated cost increases . every country could create a council representing the public entities ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) , which must work together to identify ways to lower logistics costs . it is only as vital , though , to ensure that committees are developed along similar lines in individual countries ’ provincial districts . communication between user and government services is vitally important to achieving any real improvement . regions then could turn into growth engines .
but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets could prove dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . in fact , the idea of a temporary european exit is particularly ill-advised . at the same time , the fdp ’s ideas have widespread support both in germany and among german economists ( and shared by several other european economists ) . and they are consistent with positions taken by the german finance ministry under its previous government . as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of uncertainty can become fragile and break down , imposing high costs on societies .
right now , i cast my vote for the latter , especially given that the enormous legacy of debt is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the big stimulus that is called for . lacking a sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , we will enter a vicious negative downward spiral : a weak economy will mean more house prices and interest rates up , undermining consumer confidence and weakening banks . as a result , consumption and investment will rebound , too . will the return to robust growth or will the us succeed in an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? many wall street financiers , having gotten their gobs of cash , go on back to their fiscal religiosity of low deficits .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped to lift more than a billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . already , it has helped to lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be addressed better ; but the costs are vastly outpacing benefit . lowering trade barriers even more might double average incomes in the world ’s poorest parts over the next 15 years .
nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remain an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , a perception of an active “ islamic world ” comprising only a comparatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . yet muslims in sub-saharan africa , like most muslims around the world , exhibit “ the us ” versus them a ” mentality . whether or not they enjoy it , most of sub-saharan african muslims adhere to states that tend to be secular , christian , or controlled by other religions . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , those in “ america versus ” sentiment have played a big role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . when muslims make up a minority , they have typically felt empowered to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are essential ( as in nigeria ) , they have tended to assert themselves .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ growth-” obsession merely serves as an excuse for doing nothing about health , about education , or about redistribution . and it is an obsession rooted very much in the current one . “ one 1 trillion real growth implies doubling the size of your economy every 30 or 35 years . ” piketty sees this as the grounds that “ to be somewhat optimistic ” . “ “ we forget ” for centuries , which has been essentially zero , ” he writes .
that language represents a sharp departure from that of earlier official eu communiqués . the coming year will be critical . for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . at the same time , europeans are rightly worried about economic concerns . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its earlier leadership ) , china is “ an economic competitor ” in pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models .
a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that promote the massive volume of fed-funded debt . though it has frequently criticized trump ’s approach , it is not proposing further trade liberalization . a final issue to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is that each would nominate as the next chair of the american federal reserve . center-right leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg , might reappoint powell , who did a respectable job , or pick moderate democratic economist such as former fed vice chair alan blinder or former treasury secretary larry summers . trump , who has repeatedly criticized fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would probably pick a dovish candidate .
in charles savage ’s recent account of guantánamo “ uprising , ” ” the new york times credreproduced a “ arsenal ” that gaitmo officials showed a videotmo reporters still . other recent “ terror ” – related reporting was as flimsy . the boston globe , for example , ran an “ article ” of the man – identified only by his own first name , danny – of whom the brothers carjacked up three days after the attack . danny argued that the only word of a brothers ’ conversation that he understood to be “ manhattan , ” and that reason would have asked terrorists whether his car could be leaving the state , say , to reach new york . the globe ’s one source report had shown nothing – and was unverifiable by other reporters or citizens – but proposed a lot , leading to a spate of equally unverifiable reporting it had been targeted by new york .
at the same time , these gains have not been evenly spread , and sub-saharan africa has seen far fewer progress than other areas . indeed , rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their future potential . a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food policy research institute , examines the worldwide economic downturn beginning in 2012 in the midst of rural populations . it finds that in the wake of the downturn , an estimated 38 million more people will remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than probably would have otherwise had otherwise been , with middle-income countries ’ farm households particularly at risk . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to end poverty “ in all their forms everywhere , ” and strengthens the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , which are where the effects of poverty-reduction have become more – and will have a larger impact .
but as soon as the political franchise had been upended , the us working class had organized and mass politics into the norm , domestic economic goals began to compete against ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . the classic case for the interwar period is britain ’s short-lived return to gold . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics drove the british government to choose domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods system kept that lesson to mind when it redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 . such policies might then become entirely subjugated to the requirements of the gold standard , as well as to free capital mobility .
washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvesting , not because of outbreaks of weather or poor soils , but because of their gender – or , increasingly , because of a dense web of laws , policies , agenda programs , and customs that put them at a substantial disadvantage . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including difficulties in retooling and retraining workers , especially among the unemployed . while there are pockets of high levels of unemployment in europe today , the ratio of workers to older people will decline considerably over the longer term . after all , a substantial share of the incoming refugee population is said to have been educated , incentives , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including a ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach on refugee absorption and integration , among other things , can help alleviate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . beyond helping to alleviate the human misery that fills tv screens and front pages of newspapers lies the imperative not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides .
and if access to a broad range of rewarding benefits , from health insurance to pensions , is made conditional on registering their businesses and pay taxes , they will have powerful reasons to formalize their labor . digitization might allow the formal sector to offer an equal employer benefit and responsibility for employer benefits . for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber , and walks a dog for another hour on a rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount toward its or her benefits . that would allow independent workers to accumulate and readminister their benefits , ultimately obtaining a safety net like that of a full-time contracted employees . with digital commerce has estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , gig workers ’ opportunity will grow more rapidly .
implementing ( and funding ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . at the same time , the bri must ensure that its agricultural sector can harness the potential of new technologies . for starters , they must take action to protect rural environmental people , ensure their animal welfare , and improve their education , knowledge divestment , and entrepreneurial training for farmers and farming workers . likewise , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc answers to natural and man-made disasters , by building more efficient and robust protection systems . for example , they could facilitate the provision of farmers ’ affordable agricultural insurance , or create some types of mutual-assistance scheme .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . at some point , key interest rates have remained close to zero for the next six years . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly apparent and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . in global markets , financial markets are flooded with liquidity . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with certain segments ’ performance no longer explainable by fundamental us economic data .
designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction . designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction . we ’ve seen hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone , which enables a gestural finger motions ; but within the intelligence community , the visualization may be so radical that a majority of ordinary user may scarcely recognize what it was . designs on the intelligence system are easy to forget that years ago , telephones had no buttons or cordial – numbers one had to pick up a handset and ask the operator to act on a link . the telephone dial did n’t appear until 1919 , when the first set of self-designated “ user interface researchers ” at western electric assumed what its most intuitive form should be .
but that is still not the whole story , either . as plato tells us , prometheus in his name means “ foresight , ” because he was always looking ahead , compared to his careless brother , epimetheus , whose name means “ hindrance ” ” ” . as a more rational , justifiably paranoid of the two , prometheus tried to warn its brother , rather than accepting zeus with a lethal present . yet epimetheus was charmed by pandora and heedlessly welcomed her in the lives of her own . it was only later that he would have been able to realize his terrifying error .
in fact , downplaying the severity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one could argue that the immediate cause of a breakup when examined closely is not really all that serious . the crux of the problem is that the draft constitution would give the eu fresh , much easier method of receiving a majority vote in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each member country had some share of the popular vote , weighted according to the population , but small countries protected by having proportionally fewer votes than large ones . in fact , the chances are that they will do so again ; in the long run , they will be less likely to do so . this system is better known as skilled majority voting .
rome – the prices of many staple foods rose dramatically during the global wave of 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries alike . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as did protectionist measures , such as limiting export restrictions . while these factors undoubtedly place upward pressure on food prices , they themselves can not quite explain steep hikes . consider international prices of maize , rice , and wheat – for example , reached their peak in 30 years , causing both political and economic instability and fueling food riots – in many countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , steep demand for crop purchases from bio-fuels , declining global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal production .
similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring . erdoğan ’s ambition to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving him to collude with this challenge to the western-shaped regional order . indeed , turkey has been offering logistical support for the islamic state ( isis ) , even as it has enabled the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis on the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . in a video produced after the fighting for a mosul dam in august , the group convened for the “ end of the sykes-picot party , ” and proclaimed the need to redraw the middle east ’s western-imposed political map . this highlights yet another issue on which turkey and the islamic state are catching up : the kurds .
but perhaps no contemporary leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump . that should never be forgotten that trump has wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that then-president barack obama was n’t born in the us , and therefore did n’t qualify for the office he had held . ever since entering the white house , his own lunacy has only grown stronger . so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets act at a behest of “ world jewry ” ( its architects , many turkish islamists believe , from the 1908 young turkish revolution of 1908 , and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but its core supporters hear the tpp whistle beyond its distorted science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump .
we are also doing our best to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . in the energy sector , we are privatizing state-owned energy distributors . for our intention is to attract large , western energy companies with hands-on experience in this domain as strategic investors . to ensure full transparency in our tender process and hollow out issues currently experienced in past companies are aiding the us . indeed , ten leading international energy firms will participate , initially , as a group of companies .
of course , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models historically ( albeit later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries are again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged just like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which provided fresh rationale for a return to government intervention ) . even so , chinese policy choices significantly influence other asian countries , with china having a “ state-capitalist ” economic model now being mimicked elsewhere in the region . in japan , the postal service that was privatized is to be re-nationalized and the role of government finance is being strengthened . japan air lines of near bankrupt rescued a government bailout , a device that appeared increasingly common .
but at least europe has benefited from falling commodity prices . without the ecb ’s commitment since 2012 to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , a persistent risk would be high for the eurozone – and , indeed , for the entire edifice of europe ’s – of sovereign-debt defaults . since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become used to such linkages and spillovers . by contrast , many emerging-market economies , highly dependent on commodity export earnings , emphasized the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower trend growth in china . capital flight would materially add to their plight – in some cases disastrously .
let the world recall that gaza ’s crisis was a manmade disaster . and let the world take note that conditions are worse today than at any time since the occupation began . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten dependent on food aid . almost half of the labor force is unemployed ; the local sector has collapses . water and wastewater systems fail ; garbage accumulates into the streets .
new york – the european union needs to accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that has transformed itself this year from the rising influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis ; one that reasserts effective governance over crop flows so that they take place in a safe , orderly fashion ; and at a pace that reflects europe ’s capacity to absorb them . each member state has selfishly directed its own best , often acting against the interest of others . for its part , asylum seekers have been the leading victims , and some have borne the major victims . that has precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , the common public , and authorities in charge of law and order .
to be sure , whether they are right about that remains to be seen . nonetheless , they would argue that his strengthened position now enables him to replace the credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable . notwithstanding xi ’s success in consolidating his hold on power and expanding his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he is willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining rapid growth . economists would concede that xi ’s campaign has , too , conveniently , eliminated many of his potential rivals . this is where the emergence of technologists comes in , by offering new ways to correct or preempt potential mistakes .
unfortunately , his insight was correct : european countries are at loggerheads not despite their common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that the international dispute over debt and transfers is a serious danger . in the 1920 ’s and 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted innumerable encounters to resolving them ( at that time , largely german reparations ) . at the time , it was derided and widely viewed as an entrenched adversary of the european project . american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create intra-european conflicts .
the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between the country ’s rich and poor , its urban and rural population , and its coastal and inland culture are so great that it is much harder than before for people from a heterogeneous walks of life to feel shared plights and goals . of course , no single novel offers a perfect lens through which to view any society . still , there have been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell ’s . occasionally , such as when violence was recently used to curb south chinese peasants protesting official land kingpins , the ccp still shows its willingness to use a boot-centric face of suppression . whereas a key distinction between nineteen eighty-four is between the rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people are split into different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles .
fearful of losing that battle , may explain the timidity of the far left ’s response . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what a government can and should do is not immutable . there are similar trends elsewhere in europe as well , particularly in southern europe . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances . this suggests that the progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle in winning over voters .
copenhagen – in one of his first line of public policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama focused on climate change and made clear both his own priorities and those of the facts on which those priorities rest . obama ’s policy outline was presented via video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors ’ global warming summit and steps up again in poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out the roadmap for global warming . according to obama , “ few challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than fighting climate change . ” such a statement is now commonplace for most political leaders worldwide , even as it neglects to address the question of how much the us can and should help american and global power through climate policies versus other policies . sadly , both are fragile , or even wrong , for the time being .
thus , whereas the “ outer empire ” allowed for a convergence in the uk ’s distinct national identities around a common british identity , the “ inner empire ” was decidedly english . still , for centuries , the british imperial empire generated wealth , provided raw materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities to all residents of a british army . its “ civilizing ” mission had created a sense of collective purpose , along with the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in iran , where the faltering from independence still reverberates a century later , through the insecurity wrought by the northern irish “ backstop . ” before creating an overseas empire , first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia , the english built a land empire by expanding from the south of british isles to the west .
freedom of speech and other fundamental human rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians contend . they are indispensable to the safeguarding of free societies . while a majoritarian rule may ride roughshod over minority interests , corrupt regimes are stealing from everyone . moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as unifying forces in countries with deep-seated political divisions . this is why corruption has fueled mass protests , from bucharest to brasilia , during the last year .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic opinions should be judged against this background , rather than by ideal moral or economic standard . his promise to work with russia to end the self-imposed conflict in syria sounds sensible , even as it implies the prospect of a victory by bashar al-assad ’s regime . viewed this way , trump is a populist way of saying that america needs an exit from the commitments it has neither the force nor the willingness to honor . disengaging peacefully from exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s greatest challenge . in other words , trumpism might be the solution to liberalism ’s crisis , rather than a portent of its disintegration .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposed intention to “ divide jerusalem . ” almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” united jerusalem – a conviction that could yet unravel the israel-palestine peace process . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to conclude a framework deal for an conclusive round of the israeli-palestinian peace deal , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a nonstarter . in a last-ditch effort to improve the suggestion ’s odds of success , america ’s president barack obama , who has largely avoided assuming a proactive role in the peace process during his second term , met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy , not least because of the domestic political pressure he faces .
new haven – last summer ’s closing day marked the start of yet another futile season by two of the world ’s major central banks , – the united states federal reserve and the bank of japan . and the boj ’s alchemists at the boj unveiled yet another feeble unconventional political gambit . the fed has done nothing , which is precisely the problem . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from economies that they were committed to governance . moreover , their latest actions reinforce a deepening commitment to the increasingly insidious transmission mechanism among monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies .
if the prague summit will not showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched a new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . it was henry kissinger , who argued in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of new york and washington of 2001 that tragedy may turn out to have been a matter of opportunity . much had already been accomplished over the previous six months to transform rome ’s political message into a process of practical cooperation . today , in an environment marked by unilateralism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia is very much a part of the solution . the new nato-russia council , created in rome , provides an effective and flexible mechanism for joint analysis , joint decision-making , and even joint action .
to the iranians , however , he was an even more complicated figure . to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime ’s terror activities outside iran , as well as the puppet master of its proxies throughout the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . nonetheless , over the last few years , the regime has pushed a shrewd public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or “ caesar-like ” poet . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders untainted by allegations of corruption , he was mooted as a likely presidential candidate in future elections . while regime hardliners viewed him as a non-hero , many iranians who have lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or who resent the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora viewed him very differently .
a vocal critic of protectionism , he will push the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . he plans to cut the eu ’s corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and exclude financial investment from taxation of wealth . yet he also wants to boost the us economy by an estimated € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and an expansion of the welfare state . to square that circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . his support of the el kwasniewski law , which has made it easier to fire workers , and his opposition to a 35-hour week indicate his desire to lift the french labor market out of “ flexibility ” .
prague : many americans seem to be overcome by the feeling that since the collapse of the soviet empire , the dangers of war may be crossing the list of potential risks . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it yields a return in fits and differing forms . america , they say , should heed its own problems , and should not get involved in a world in which its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude . never in the modern era has there been isolationism , however , kept america out of harm ; instead , it delay engagement when conflagrations are ablaze . in the end , america is paying thousands of times as much for its initial lack of interest than it might have paid had it become engaged at the outset of a crisis or better yet even before .
tapping -clogged cities need better public transportation , and funding the expansion of bus speedier-transit ( brt ) systems is a proven means of reducing congestion , emissions , and commuting costs . by tapping the asset-backed security model , the us has recently joined with the un , along with the un , ’s green climate fund , and china , to structure up to $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this allows pension funds and insurance companies to finance indirectly the needed equipment upgrades in their mom-and-pop shops and workshops , from tijuana to tierra del fuego . there are many other areas where those committed to fighting climate change might follow us example . here , too , a massive creative solution can be found .
such an alliance would also enable a new foreign policy for europe , one that promotes peace and sustainable development , underpinned by a new security arrangement that does not depend so heavily on america . the political terms of a grand new coalition government would have seemed obvious . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , and i believe would reclaim control over its borders , allow it to strengthen and enforce the required limits on migration . the spd should hold out for ministerial management on economic and financial policy , with the cdu/csu holding an office . once again , eurobonds , a greek partnership with china , and intra-european unity could make all the difference .
at any rate , the success of monetary policy has been difficult to deny . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the full impact of monetary policy will weaken , because it increasingly influences prices more than output . that ’s why it ’s time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus away from a demand-focused first and second arrows to a supply-oriented third arrow : a new growth strategy . when enough excess supply occurs in an economy , promoting supply-side productivity is practically useless without efforts to boost demand . fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do .
race has always been a provocative subject when the explosive needs of science and statistics intersect with politics . now that the debate is heating up again in france , owing to the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has incited fierce feud that touches the very heart of french republicanism . the first concerns the republican principle , enshrined in the us constitution , which recognizes only citizens and accepts no distinction between them because of origin , race , or religion . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government officials are forbidden to collect information about a citizen ’s ethnic or racial origins , either real or projected , when conducting a census or other efforts to gather statistical information on his population . there are two major reasons for this .
in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . prevention should start with an education aimed at raising citizens ’ expectations . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving this goal . nobody prefers to live in a society where bribes must be paid to ensure basic public services like health care and education . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective mix of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by a belief that greed can be taught , accountability can be taught , and impunity can end up .
in those countries , ministers are being forced to resign for petty infractions that would seem trivial in other countries as well . recent studies have shown that when a corporation ’s generalized trust ” is high , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction increases . commercial agreements are , among other reasons , easier to reach and efficiently . a convincing american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that official corruption can actually be controlled might seem like a futile task . but the objective is certainly worth embracing , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is equally economically costly and deeply corrosive of well-being .
the fed has begun a process of normalization of monetary policy , but has failed to complete the task ; and president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent them , by heckling from the sidelines . some elements of his post-crisis program remain positive . bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and transparency about derivatives markets has materially strengthened . as they put it , “ using a fiscal adrenaline might be limited just when it is needed most . ” there is an urgent need to restock an emergency arsenal , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” particularly with there having relatively little scope for relax monetary policy .
as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s trade relations with china would be undermined when the dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . that same month , though one of china ’s largest oil firms concluded an norway drilling deal with china , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop business . china has complained loudly , refused to allow liu to pick up his tadic prize , and even threaten norway with financial repercussions . so western diplomats negotiating a deal with china should call lower-level government officials his bluff and target a signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that , ultimately , decision-making is taken quietly at a higher level through pragmatic leaders , indeed susceptible to pressure . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china .
that means that the system ’s focus must shift from speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation , one that entails reforms of financial-sector regulation and us antitrust and regulatory laws , combined with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . we might hoped-for that america will show more leadership in reforming the global financial system , by advocating for stronger international regulation , the world reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in addressing global warming ; in democratizing international economic institutions ; and providing assistance to poorer countries . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continued malaise is not bode well for global growth . americans should hope for all , though i am not sanguine to get a lot of it done & more likely , america will muddle through ; here another little program for struggling students and homeowners ; an end to bush ’s tax cut for millionaires but no wholesale tax reform ; severe cutbacks on defense spending ; or important progress on global warming . indeed , us globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn demanding greater global cooperation .
so it is little wonder that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states seek to defy iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . that issue , of course , is entirely outside of israel to control . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world , between sunnis and shi’a , recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . still , the stakes are far higher than they were in the seventeenth century , because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to acquire nuclear weapons . indeed , iran is the only country that openly declares its aspiration to destroy yet another united nations member .
the strategic significance of the dramatic golan heights , overlooking the majority of the north jerusalem region of galilee , is obvious . but the two parties ’ agendas are different : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of the golan ’s return , israel wants specific , entrenched assurances regarding the security of its northeastern border , along with an end to syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country that is practically a syrian protectorate . because syria , bereft of soviet-backed aid , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem might be more flexible than it was before , when the golan was a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a supposedly extending all the way to vladivostok . so , despite today ’s interruptions , the context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides . for israel that quid pro quo for returning the golan is not some fragment of paper with habitual phrases about peace and coexistence .
but , while some parts of the security apparatus may support an initial crackdowns , violent repression would be difficult to sustain . whereas army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow today are “ everybody disgruntled ” by the recent police and army reforms to participate in a bloodless clampdown , special-operations force from the provinces staffed by chechen warplanes might cherish the excitement of sticking it with moscow fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more condemned for a wage hike that putin ’s united russia party has announced , with much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma elections . during the fall of 1989 , east german soldiers joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . but , with china over the same year , the protesters in beijing were crushed by soldiers from inner mongolia , who did not understand mandarin and had little sympathy for big-city dwellers .
but not proceeding , too , would have been a disaster for the worse . with the onset of the current crisis , the crisis of 1992 proved that the current system is shaky . not moving forward to europe would set europe off an even more disruptive crisis . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government-bond purchases would similarly lead to disaster . this is why european leaders have taken the ambitious steps that they have done so .
in november 2009 , while obama had his first visit to japan as us president , he stressed that he is from hawaii and proud to be “ america first ” pacific president . two years later , us secretary of state hillary clinton published the “ america pacific century , ” ” ” ” signaling an american shift in global strategy . america obviously knows all about democracy . but its unilateralism has been wrong to criticize the egyptian regime while maintaining it with military hardware ; it can serve only to undermine bilateral relations , just as the same american approach to musharraf ’s regime has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east .
mr. bush 's international credibility , they should be emphasizing , does n't suffer through the avoidance of a war , but gains further through control of iraq 's hitherto covert military effort . to give additional credence to their own praise , they should abandon no doubt that if war became america 's only option . however , they should also emphasize that a war is not the only , and certainly not an automatic " serious consequence , " to follow from the non-compliance of the iraqi foreign policy . to be sure , some of america 's allies are better suited than others to get these points across the board through a wide audience on the other side of the atlantic . alas , the bush administration , by its behavior in the case of chancellor schroeder 's re-election campaign last september , has maneuvered itself from the right of authority on the issue .
africa ’s smallholder farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations , are facing an even bigger bureaucratic hurdle : no paper to show that the land they call home is theirs . uncertainties about their ability to control their farm at the coming season , the farmers ’ planning horizons shrink . studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals , without strengthening protection for land rights , especially for women . this is particularly true of female farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . rather than invest in terraced fields , soil planting trees , and purchase high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s smallholder farmers seek to maximize their short-term gains .
it is not that the end of europe ’s monetary union is on the agenda ; rather , it is because people have started to think about possible low-probability futures , in which the end of emu might be placed on the agenda . that , in turn , is enough to shake up asset prices globally . my own view is that germany would have been better off in less than a decade under more neo-liberal policies . coupled with all this is northern europe ’s discontent with central bankers , explicitly with the ecb and the euro . but that does not seem to be what german voters wants , and this makes the rubbish of german politics four years from now incalculable .
of course , its organizers are loath to describe it as a sunni party . that vision has great appeal among those seeking to see a less sectarian-based policy in iraq . yet , within iraq , very few people are – sunni or shia – who can not see iraqiyya as the party devoted to reviving sunni leadership . rather , it is being described as a nation-state party that invites people of all orientations to participate . the results in the march 2010 general election have given iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than second seats , de sher , maliki ’s state-led legislation .
in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector – representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion – remains weak and unable to generate sustainable gains . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and eventually , europe ’s entire political experiment . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect a merger , like commerzbank , another german institution . but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” ” ” ” with too many branches , too few deposits , and funding costs far surpass those of its more successful ally . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimation , will require that at least a third of european banks shut down or merge .
none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks to do just that . they should undertake special care to prevent real-estate bubbles , because real-estate companies represent an enormous share of total wealth and a vital source of collateral in finance . monetary tightening might slow growth temporarily ; impeding asset-price growth is notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly ever popular . today ’s febrile political environment certainly wo n’t simplify matters . but the heavy rise of low-skill borrowing should also be a concern .
in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain had revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt . so this might be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out just how debt can be trimmed . but the european central bank , notably by the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly been leaked by the case against debt reduction , a case that is both politically substantial and deep in morally sound terms . indeed , a non-reneging principle on public debt is deeply intertwined with the growth of legal security , representative government , and modern democracy . many economists have argued the case based on the theory of arithmetic calculation .
trump may merely be keeping his powder dry until a real conflict erupts . and though someday , the fed will almost surely abide by that advice ( i have also been published on the topic ) , goodfriend of the nomination barely survived america ’s federal banking committee . but , by and large , the senate has been giving trump what he wants ; and many republican senators would have embraced a “ disrupter ” ; for example , a disciple of ron “ end ” fed ” disciple “ paul ii , ” or another conservative bid for a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . sadly , however , the battle over the fed ’s independence is far from over . indeed , some conservative republicans object to another of his appointments , marvin mellon ’s university of carnegie , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront another very deep recession or financial crisis .
yet india continues to confront numerous challenges : almost 300 million people living in abject poverty , the spread of the naxalite rebellion , the hazards of terrorist attacks in ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage a growing middle class with high expectations for better infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? to be sure , these problems wo n’t be solved overnight ; they will not be manageable . but the growing conviction that a better place for tomorrow will hold india a polity stable .
empirically , few firms get this right : american national public radio and the bbc both recently hacked to one sea , whereas mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts undermined . finally , the ap is not likely to face financial penalties for this mistake . because few mechanisms can prevent hoaxed tweets from triggering hoaxed tweets , and , given the high-profile response that successful hackers could expect , twitter will remain a malicious hoaxes vehicle , even as technological barriers force the attacks to become more contentious . the proliferation of security lapses means that people are more inclined to shrug their shoulders than to cast the first stone of a company that is being violated . negotiating losses stemming from his clumsy tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles .
detection means determining whether an extreme event is part of routine weather variation , or a symptom of deeper , long-term change . a new science of detection and attribution is burdening our knowledge , too , and making us an even bigger cause for concern . attribution implies a capacity to assign the likely causes of events into human actions or those associated with them . several past studies have shown that researchers can actually detect long-term changes in climate change in the mounting frequency of extreme events , such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and severe storms . by using cutting-edge climate models , scientists are not only detecting long-term climate change ; they are also attributing at least some extreme events to human causes .
america might reduce its deficits faster than it would in non-cooperative , but only if the surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings . for the time being , the mutual assessment process that g-20 countries agreed is a crucial ingredient in the rebalancing program ; for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . as long as it works , what will emerge will be an commitments of g-20 countries to commit to policies that are globally beneficial – on a condition that others hold onto their commitments . in fact , rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative ; it is crucial . with a global currency system , the international exchange-rate system is at least partly broken .
given the power of major tech firms to stifle competition , reversing such trends will require government intervention . but the solutions that have been proposed , including by law-enforcement scholars such as lillic khan , tend to focus more on making better use of antitrust laws . and , indeed , taming big tech has become an important issue ahead of the 2020 presidential election in the united states . specifically , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren have been the two strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge us president donald trump have called for breaking up major tech firms . this approach is unlikely to work because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived .
throughout each of my field visits , i marveled at how these efforts affect the lives of women . on one recent trip , i met with rasmata , a young mother who told me that , thanks to the safety net of her savings group , she was able to manage to support her family despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and lingering drought . she had diversifying our incomes , managing her own finances , and even accepting mass-smart farming techniques . the best part of this was that she described herself as enfeebled , rigorous , and ambitious woman . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial circumstances or schooling , deserve to ascribe to themselves on their own .
stock values in the us fossil-fuel industry , based on the presumption that companies would be able to extract and burn every known face of reserves , would diminish . investing in those companies , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . as anyone who receives investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” that reality implies another compelling case for divestment . if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate that possibility .
it was only in the case of the late 1970s and 1980s that the soviet system could n’t rival market capitalism . following the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , that g2 world gave way to the g1 +2 + order in which all other countries ( cnn ) were unable to rival america as the sole global global global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was the era of liberal rules-based multilateralism . america broadly championed that order – the 2003 iraq war was a obvious exception , and , like most countries , benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new intricate value chains . democratic and market-based capitalism appeared to prevail again in what francis fukuyama called “ the end of history . ”
russia ’s economy has been under severe strain as a result of western sanctions over crimea . instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deeply unpopular pension reforms that included increasing the retirement age . more important , the russian state-capitalist model has led to weak competition and declining incentives for private-sector investment and entrepreneurship . tackling russia ’s economic grievances will not be easy ; it will be impossible . with few rallying public opinion options , putin may well decide that it ’s time to “ remind ” russians that they are under attack .
yet , in practical terms , there has been no detectable progress . this stands in stark contrast to other aspects of the european union ’s agenda . first , eu member states say that they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 they established new institutions for doing so ; and at amsterdam last year , they ostensibly strengthened those institutions . the goal of the economic and monetary union , and the single currency also adopted at the maastricht treaty in 1991 , is a bold , even revolutionary , agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that , in a mere two months , the single currency will be a reality .
augmenting us and british forces with additional “ western ” forces would n’t , particularly at this late stage , alter a critical perception of this intervention , both within and outside the arab world . only an explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can provide the kind of legitimacy and international support that military action – except for a clear act of self-defense – requires . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , by temporary alliances , or by increasingly standing alliances – like nato . indeed , that last point has come at the heart of the issues in iraq .
meanwhile , the civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe . syria ’s “ balkanization ” among a country of diverse ethnic and religious groups is a seemingly predictable outcome . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; but , if it does , it is determined to struggle until the end of the pattern . this regional re-alignment need not become anti-western , but it surely will be if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario may no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of a syrian government loss of control over its chemical weapons poses an imminent threat to us military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us .
in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated funding is on the rise . for decades , governments have played a significant role in domestic media ; using sexual-broadcast frequencies and licensing requirements to shape the market . yet , in recent years , governments have also stepped up their budgetary influence . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenues . sadly , while this windfall might place more programming on the air , it only weakens the industry ’s woes .
as a result , they have come to recognize the “ right of protection ” against the nonlegal arbitrariness and states such crimes against their own populations , even as enforcement remains reasonably uncertain . at the end , simultaneous advances in politics and international law led to the establishment of an international tribunal . the next major step was the emergence of a concept of humanitarian intervention after the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . this development was anything but an accidental one . with its establishment resulting from its long and appalling experience , the basic idea of modernity was that the strength of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of higher law , thereby putting individual rights above national sovereignty a big step forward .
axelrod has held tournaments among prominent game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a repeated prisoner ’s dilemma game . the winner , a strategy that will most likely produce a cooperative outcome , has been the anatol rapoport of the tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . according to the tft approach , a “ bilateral game ” should initiate cooperation : if a other player behaves at cooperatively , so should you . only if the other player ’s defects – that is , to start depicting non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . of course , when another player develops , one might be tempted to mistake the decision to increase your own payoff , and potentially even secure a windfall .
most of the world ’s malnourished children live in india . the bjp ’s painting strategy as soft on terror and demonization of muslims as an existential threat to india has misfired . unfortunately , however , the economic trajectory that congress is concocting , though it might well boost short-run growth , is ultimately on a collision course , with both equity and sustainability . indeed , despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during a period of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . as for the former threat on the right , anyone hopes for peace in the region and lower tensions within india by the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) .
but what is fairly clear is that even there was n’t enough empirical evidence in support of friedman ’s ideas to justify their growing dominance . friedman ’s dominance of ideas in the early stages of the great recession had less to do with evidence that support for them than with the reality of the science of economics is all too often tainted by politics . and , indeed , there can be no denying the fact that friedman ’s cure had proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession – strongly suggests that it might have fallen similarly short of being tried during the great depression . in this case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman , applying keynesian and minskyite policy on a massive enough scale to address the problems presented by the great recession . admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate would have required mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . rising intra-eu tensions were the inevitable outcome . on the one hand , the euro had protected the eurozone , especially germany ’s export-dependent economy , from a period of speculative attack and a period of turmoil of currency volatility . on the other side , the crisis ’s second phase mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis were , in effect , contradictory .
moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm ’s arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the goal of destabilizing the mostly christian south . sudan ’s commitment to the srpa has always been equivocal . indeed , since the civil war ended in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently been forced to confront the militias that operate as government proxies . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process , and the derailing referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for sudan ’s kurdish peoples and that region , is a real possibility . after all , the repressive nature of the regime in khartoum lies at the root of the many conflicts that tore the country apart .
one approach is to capture co2 at coal-fired power plants as co2 or gas combustion . the second solution is to capture co2 emissions for the storage underground . another is to capture it directly from air use using specially designed chemical processes . but such a technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not even proven on a large scale . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but there are only a few remaining areas in a world in which it could be scaled up without any major environmental or social cost . )
such patterns can raise fears among shareholders that pay structures are poorly designed to serve their own interests . it is important to differentiate between two sources of concern about paying in financial firms . one set of concern arises from shareholder opinion . figures recently released by the new york regulatory general , andrew cuomo , indicate that nine large financial firms had paid their employees aggregate compensation exceeding $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization has substantially declined . in a post-crisis finance order , governments must assume the role of tracking and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur .
such manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to a kind of “ fake news . ” it is time to make a spade a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly accountable . consider the question of “ bump stocks , ” a gun modification that the trump las vegas massacre used to fire faster . some republican senators have now drawn praise to feign they would endorse a ban on facilities . but when democratic presidential senator dianne feinstein proposed the equivalent of prohibition in 2013 , republican voters were overwhelmingly opposed .
as a result , demands for more opportunity , and better lives have grown louder . by 2000 , that share had fallen to 22 % , and , by 2010 , to 11 % – with little more than 3 % living below outright destitution . yet chile today is very different from chile more than 20 years ago . for now , the combined 29 % of the population that has left behind are an incipient middle class , with its new aspirations and goals . chileans are clamoring for sufficient housing , access to improved health services , a safer environment , and more access to higher education – the most critical drivers of social advancement .
success in america ’s presidential politics requires super-b intuition , being quick on one ’s legs , and , above all , a compelling rationale for running it . it is that clinton is the only person globally known to have launched her campaign twice . true , clinton offers numerous programs that she would push like president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no governing theme after her hand-dding . that impressive , spectacularly intelligent woman just does not have the feeling of a policy demanded at the highest levels . ( the first attempt , in iowa , where she spoke for eight people in a closed series of meetings , did n’t work very well . )
it was only a year ago during the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , that senior staff officials were telling anyone who would listen that the entire european sovereign-debt panic had been a teapot temstrike . using slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ insolvency ” in today ’s advanced economies : unnecessary , undesirable , and unlikely , the fund tried to convince investors that eurozone debt was solid like a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not a serious concern , owing to anticipated growth and reform . never mind the obvious flaw in the fund ’s rationale , namely that countries like greece and portugal are facing policies and implementation risks far more closely resembling those of emerging markets than those of a truly advanced economy like germany and the united states . as the situation deteriorates , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its market beliefs , as it were and adopt a more cautious tone .
another alternative , backed by a large and growing body of data on economics and psychology , is a matter of direct measurement of well-being , or of happiness . surveys of reported well-being now reach many countries , and the idea of cutting to jpmorgan by applying that kind as its prosperity metric has strong advocates . but that choice has several drawbacks , including that of indicators of well-being change little over time . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically exhibit a score of between six or 7 on a 0-10 scale . one way to make such indicators more directly relevant to a policy would be to track the ways people use their time and attach well-being measures to each .
these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . if this is the metric , subsequently despite her own achievements , thatcherism became a failure . the shift toward financing that thatcher had promoted heightened inequality , making the economy more volatile . her “ right to buy ” policies spurred an upward spiral in house prices , which spurred households to assume more and larger levels of debt . the 1986 “ big bang ” of 1986 , overregulated financial services , made risky city-state behavior the norm .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations , particularly those pertaining to advanced economies , have very little impact ( to put it mildly ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated staff as much as its unique links to countries . yes , it has made important strides toward improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it has courageously taken the lead in shining more light on the economic impact of gender inequalities and the effects of climate change . but its forward-thinking analyses have all too often proved backward , with its quantitative projections having consistently taken on considerable revisions .
indeed , arab societies ’ predominant view often stifles outsiders from breaking free from their belief that islam confines all arab women on an equal footing when , in reality , they experience very different conditions . and , unfortunately , such assessments tend to focus attention on being supposed to be providing imsm that emphasizes islamic norms , which obscures knowledge of the real changes taking place . this precludes many from seeing , far less evaluating , the deep changes taking place in arab societies , and how women drive those changes forward . the west thus risks depriving itself of an important key key to understanding the arab world today and how it will be tomorrow . this is especially necessary because women ’s status is one of the leading benchmarks that the outside world and especially the west uses to assess the arab world .
in a lonely crowd , the american sociologist david riesman identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that embrace inherited rituals , morals , and values for guidance ; inner-directed cultures in which people behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that react predominantly to external norms and peer influences . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid communication advances have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three kinds competing to define the region ’s future . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , the religion these books are among the most downloaded works of literature in the arab world . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy , and of modern technologies that is fanning the flames of conflict between the twin types of “ “ “ “ “ reformers ” ” ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . exploiting their ability to primate and instantly disseminate ancient religious texts and the western-centric literature , both camps fight for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies .
for many developing countries , china ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed attractive , especially in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states and thus appeared to discrediting american-style liberal capitalism . until recently , there had very little reason to question such an question . china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % or more for more than three decades . china had overtaken japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . hundreds of millions of chinese had entered the middle class , with the us .
there are good reasons why america adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow faster through export-led industrialization . there is also a strong case for improving american national security if , say , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world are learning how america has helped their countries prosper , rather than trying to maintain them as poor as possible for the longer term . the reason that this narrative is wrong is straightforward . after that , america established lasting normal trade relations with china , and refused to brand its government as a currency manipulator . in helping mexico , china , and other developing countries grow , america is getting richer trade partners .
but , overall , the public ’s commitment to monetary policy remains strong , becoming stronger . there is one more important problem with the arguments for an open society : most people , at least in europe , do not want it . according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank ’s 65,000 survey of 65,000 europe ’s residents , nearly 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and , in value , more than half of all payments are made in cash . as is often the case in europe , differences among member states are pronounced : financial-transaction share ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but it is an open question whether the still highly skewed digital-payment sector will help customers more than the companies offer the payments solutions .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . one vehicle has failed to straddle the border crossing ; another has penetrated israeli territory before being stopped by israel ’s defence forces ( idf ) . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed an egyptian army outpost in sinai , killing 16 egyptian troops . they then hijacked two armored personnel and sped up to their frontier with israel . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian overthrow , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the supreme command chief , has not diminished the importance of trouble there .
but , as countries that rely heavily on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from the prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to choose sides . to defend their own interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the geopolitical quo . the cptpp and ceta member countries recognize that the global trading system has its problems , including incomplete or outdated regulations falling on issues like subsidies to soes . but they also recognize that bilateralism – the small countries trying the uk to negotiate on equal terms with superpowers – is not an option .
meanwhile , ghana and benin emphasize budget expenditures that have a high sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its stated commitments under this goal . grassroots assessments of progress against such indicators aims to complement the government-led reporting mechanism . moreover , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments use new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” are implementing targets central to domestic planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies have a responsibility to sign performance agreements with the central government , in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates and explain to their inclusion in political and development plans .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that rising inequality is among the world ’s great political-economy problems . it is hard , at least for me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last 50 years that would transfer any substantial part of the wealth of today ’s wealthy nations to poorer nations today . i can easily envision alternatives , such as the communist triumphs of post-world war ii elections in italy and france , which would have impoverished nations now in the rich north . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 rather than 1976 would have done the work there . but the alternatives that would make the south richer at the price of diminishing the north ’s wealth would require a wholesale revolution in human psychology .
other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the country ’s total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . informal capital and the rest of the vultures comprise just 1 % of its official creditors , but would receive an excess of $ 1.5 trillion . and , because a debt-restructuring stipulated that all of the creditors that accepted it could request par terms like holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook for $ 140 billion more . accordingly , each argentine might owe more than $ 3,500 , with more than one-third of the average annual per capita income .
new york – the authority of the united nations has frayed . major international finance institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and regional development banks – are having to work hard to make up for the twenty-first century . it will be essential , after bali , to reflect seriously on the next phase for the wto and its role in the international trading system . business may moan and the media could carp up , but the answers to many of the world ’s great problems are more , or at least better , government , not less . until we reverse the trend toward declining multilateralism , it will do little to improve governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges .
both economists and moralists were united in believing that you should actually spend less than you earn , so that you could “ save ” for the proverbial rainy day or old-age age . the same attitude governed the institutional debt ( rem ) was the same . becoming indebted a person was a sure point for his or her fecklessness . indeed , it often was more than a point of honor : failure to repay debt on time had landed a borrower in prison . and , if a person became indebted , a measure of tribute to an obligation was the same when it collapsed , through amassing assets , reducing consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three .
more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . that example , in turn , had a constructive impact on survivors of the communist parties in asia and beyond . geopolitically , the post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . whereas china ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) after the tiananmen square protests of 1989 resulted in publicly subservient ideologies toward the creation of wealth . with a sudden collapse in the soviet union , it had a strategic boon to asia , eliminating a menacing empire , and opening the way for china to rapidly pursue its own interests globally .
in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi resigned in july , saying that this would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively , and he had promised to respect minority rights . yet successive actions designed to give him unprecedented executive power raise fears of these early affirmative steps . similarly , rather than condemning the taliban ’s acceptance of its terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia , and the devastation of sufi shrines in mali by ansar daddy , a radical islamist sect , muslims have remained largely silent . while none of these groups represents a majority point , they do exert significant influence , and presumably believe that they act as they act in the interests of the majority . developments following the arab spring might offer some indication of the prospect of religious tolerance .
fourth , a reversal of the verdict on june 4th constitutes an historic inevitability , as did the wishes of a majority of china ’s people . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; almost every chinese person knows that official reevaluation is just a matter of time . this group will unite with forces of democratization , both at home and abroad , to establish a truly democratic system . indeed , the party ’s high-level leadership has split the event until now . today , many of those responsible for their decisions are collapsing – notably , deng xiaoping and others of party elders – .
by joining the euro , italy surrendered monetary sovereignty to an external , autonomous decision-maker , the european central bank . at the same time , it committed specific commitments with respect to the behavior of its fiscal policy , although those constraints are not as hard ” as those framing monetary policy . these obligations place the real limits on italians ’ macroeconomic policy choices . above all , the absence of a domestic currency means italians can neither choose their own inflation target nor devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority , allowing financial markets to veto the choice of a minister by a popularly elected government .
at a time when we are seeing how misplaced western national priorities can bring disruption to a more non-western nation . in any contest of ideas , the extreme tends to triumph over moderation over moderation . in dark times , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the craving is not for democratic liberalism , but for believers to unite behind a single true faith . in any contest of ideas , the extreme would typically be a triumph over moderate . in pakistan , an extremist now wears the islamic garb , and stands for the creator , through the faith and in a theocratic order .
japan , for its part , has relatively strict laws that protect the welfare of animals . for instance , most mammals must be slaughtered in a method that minimizes their pain and distress as much as possible . in addition , there are strong grounds for believing that it should . such laws are akin to regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world that require animals to be stunned – rendered unconscious by gas and insensitive to pain when they have their throats cut off and are “ trustworthiness ” bad . there are , to be sure , circumstances in which the stunning failure , and that animals are killed while thoroughly conscious ; but , when stunning works properly , it does reduce animal suffering .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s own critics have consistently underestimated his capacity for political communication , perhaps because it is so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . though the large segments of the american population have hated them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , and pushed for appeals to the center . both fdr and reagan , after all , have been known as “ great communicators ” . trump , on the other hand , appealed especially to the previously elected minority . his inaugural address sounded like campaigning speech ; and , after taking office , a series of false pronouncements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center , but strengthened it with his base .
far more important for achieving price stability has been the advent of a modern independent central bank , a facility that helped dramatically lower inflation levels worldwide . it ’s quite plausible that if , instead of joining the euro , italy and spain simply granted more autonomy to their national central banks , they , too , would have low inflation today . greece is an obvious case in point ; but , considering that many poor african countries have been in a position to keep inflation well within single digits , one might presume that greece would somehow manage the same way . yes , a handful of places , such as venezuela , still have triple-a price growth , but are now anders . indeed , by holding on to their own currencies , the southern european countries might never be dug in as large a debt hole , with potentially partial default through inflation .
indeed , one may have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants to have it both ways , just as cohn had – to allow his manifest anguish to be well known without acting on it . but problems can arise when a sitting president chose to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn had been seen as one of his administration ’s more moderate voices and wanted to succeed janet yellen as chair of america ’s federal reserve . cohn ’s sin was to allow things to get known publicly that he had almost resigned in the wake of the violence last month in charlottesville , virginia , when trump equated the white supremacist and neo-nazi protesters , many of whom opposed them . speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump ” unfold in early september , when the us president suddenly cut a deal with democratic congressional leaders .
on may 17 , the us advocacy organization oxfam america sued america ’s securities and exchange commission to present the final rule implementing section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act . but the risks are as real as potential rewards . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and abject degradation , and poor countries are among the world ’s poorest countries . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contract management to farm commitments – is critical to realizing a sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and implosion . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries suffering from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and important developmental and environmental challenges .
links to west africa are close and going back over the past century , with nearly 50,000 indian whites or indian people living in the region . indeed , scores of people fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . india ’s government seems unlikely to keep tabs on every measure of arrivals from west africans . while exit controls exist for all but the affected regions ’ international airports , the virus ’s incubation periods ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but may be up to 21 days ) mean that someone with no symptoms from the recent infection could make a trip to india without triggering alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi ’s airport has indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government requires , has been loosely enforced , with multiple travelers exiting the terminal ebola information cards that were supposed to transmit immigration officials .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government announced some of the most draconian public-sector cutbacks that any developed country ’s government had ever attempted . indeed , his education minister recently declared that funding for british universities is slashed by as much as 40 % . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities will be targeted more aggressively than the science and engineering that are supposedly better with entrepreneurship . the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new , though that is the first time that the struggle has migrated so directly in britain . ronald reagan pioneered a surge in political and state propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which had demonized the national hovine endowment .
the reform “ debate ” within those regimes boiled down to a fight between the various branches of the security-military apparatus over the best ways to maintain the status quo . in light of the recent wave of upheaval , it is more apparent than ever that any of the “ reform ” initiatives now being carried out in the arab world were aimed only at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping terrorist abuses of power . in fact , when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for the “ national reconciliation ” conference , conflicting statements granted by saif al-islam and us security officials were surprised by me . the head of the internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another cases of atrocity crimes that are currently committed against libyans , has refused to calling the process a " reconciliation . " to him was “ repentance from heresy . "
sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s mix of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the supply of private-sector lending . when the credit expands too quickly , the fed can raise interest rates that it pays on deposits . that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how it would work in practice . how high would the fed – or the ecb – have to raise interest rates on deposits to prevent the buildup of bank lending ? now , what if that interest rate had to be 4 % or 6 % , or even 8 % , ?
they called for a process to ensure that , when the warning lights flashed yellow-brazil , a country in question , it would be compelled to put its policies right . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better off in reflecting the last crisis than they are on preventing the next one . the nature of financial risk continues to reverberate in ways that are hard to forecast using backward-looking indicators like those envisioned by the g20 . the nanjing policymakers have been promising to address this problem . they have tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators to signal when any country , including the us and china , was on the brink of crisis .
first , he dare not appear “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs to try guantánamo detainees in rigged setting , or even hold them out for their behavior forever : lawyers claim that torture , including sexualized torture , was so endemic in the cia and the army that obama could hold scores , if not the hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are criminal scenes . according to wells dixon , the center lawyer for constitutional rights that represents some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling on torture practices , so that it calls “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in a court . moreover , obama has sought to repress hundreds of photographs depicting sex assault in us-run prisons and doing nothing to roll back the patriot act . why should obama , the constitutional scholar , backtracking on this way ?
when the us authorities – explicitly the federal reserve and the fdic – determines that this is impossible , they have the legal authority to force banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . but the current reality is that no megabank might go bankrupt without triggering another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the kind of global panic leading in the days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . specifically , experts like hoenig , who had second thoughts about cross-border origins of bankruptcies , emphasize that it simply would n’t work for the us firms through the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , the bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . “ panics ” is about panicking , ” ” ” hoenig says , “ and the people and nations generally protect themselves and their wealth ahead of others . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters , and prevent grabbing assets .
paris – the central paradox of french politics was re-confirmed , once again , on march 27 . but le pen was replaced in january by her hardly less charismatic daughter , marine le pen . and , with that change , the fate of the front can be altering . in a nationwide vote to choose local authorities ( such as conseiller al quseiller al ) , the far-right national front won 11 % of the popular vote , but it secured just 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago .
i am convinced that the global fund is one of the smartest investments the us can make , just as many governments have come to understand from the start . the united states was the global fund ’s largest aid supporter , but many others have done their part . for example , australia has committed $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 – an amount that has enabled almost 200,000 people to get lifesaving hiv treatment , more than 80,000 people to receive tb treatment , seven million people have been unable to aids on malaria , and 14 million bed nets to families in need . with technical support such as this , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system that will be fully funded with domestic resources by 2019 . the global fund has brightened hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia , a heroic achievement that should make donor countries proud .
new york – everybody – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers , one can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundation about efficient development spending . and those lessons are especially relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus solely on domestic issues , and let the recipient countries deal on issues like the best they can ( aid opposition is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . prior to his election victory , us president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries that hate us , ” ” ” reflecting the widespread belief that aid needs . the united kingdom allocates less than 1 % of its federal budget to aid , but the average americans believes that this figure should be no more than thirty-one-times higher . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday paper recently launched a petition calling for the end of ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) .
but the first has fallen prey to the long american military occupation , and the second time it faces a us-led oil-export embargo intended to throttle it financially . first , it threatens to sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-banking-banking-sector monarchies – including with saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar having succeeded in riding the arab spring . second , further iran ’s isolation will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america is chafing its military disengagement there and seeking to cut deals with the taliban . india , one of its largest aid donors to afghanistan , does not have a contiguous corridor to which country and must rely on iran for access . as a result , america ’s drive to give the international impact of its new sanctions act constitute a double-whammy for india .
a key obstacle to such a proposal is congressional approval requirements to increase america ’s quota share . that opens the possibility that america ’s vote power might fall temporarily below the 15 % threshold required to veto decisions requiring the backing of around 85 % of imf members ’ votes . that guarantee could be included in the resolution dividing the reform package into two components . it would remain in force until america went into a strong effort to raise its quota and recover its voting share . to secure american support , a board of governors could commit not to contemplate any draft decision requiring an 85 % backing without america ’s consent .
but , by nearly six months into the north african upheavals , the number of arrivals on south island of lampedusa reached about 30,000 . italian officials privately attest to the fact that current figures are not ungovernable . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . the problem for italian officials , as for other governments worried by recent migration flows , has been pressure from right-wing populist parties , which no longer have much need to be defensive . the case for openness , inclusiveness , and diversity in european societies have become far more difficult to make .
the german state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , according to a recent oecd forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s government budget totals 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , according to the same oecd forecast , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp this 2009 , translating into exactly the same economic stimulus as germany , 4.4 % of gdp . while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and causes large structural problems , it also means that the state reacts extremely counter-cyclically and stabilizes the us economy , which also benefits the entire world . moreover , germany has a much more embedded in stability than the us , because it has no problem of heavily indebted households , which are now confined to borrowing .
that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , because each member has declared its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . several months earlier , the four had been displaced to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april , acknowledging their shared determination to alter the rules of the global economic system . in the private sector , the bric index funds have proliferated , though goldman sachs has radically hedged its own bric bets by introducing a second term , the addition of perhaps another $ 11 , ” ” or n-11 , to the debate . the ossification of the brics into a de facto global institution move forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” but catchy ideas are dying hard , and russia has moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into an irreversible reality .
reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon had a lot to do with his capacity to dole out cowboy cruvie-star cruelty , though luck also played a role . after all , the cold war ’s victory was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose efforts to reform the soviet union hastened its collapse . with his well-rehearsed sunny predisposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a somewhat decidedly hollywood flair . in fact , his strategic defense initiative , intended to end a strategy of nuclear-deterrence technology known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was nicknamed “ star wars . ” advocating supply-side economics to the white working class had convinced millions that “ fewer government , ” which meant slashing federal programs , including in education , would have resulted in “ morning in america . ”
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , the riots and death recently seen in xinjiang may have taken place in russia . rather than hearing about a crackdown on urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , we might read about the hundreds killed in the streets of almaty , and columnists would be making comparisons to the bloody crushing impact of ukrainian independence displays in mahinda earlier this year . the experts would have reminded kazakhstan that it had never been a country , and that ukraine ’s claims for independence are historically dubious . replace xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet , and you get the picture . as with china today , there would be some feeble international condemnation , along with some speculation about possible links between kazakh militants and exile groups or islamic fundamentalists .
renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans that were established to create new currencies ’ currencies in a few european financial centers . and chinese policymakers had made it abundantly clear just how dissatisfied they would be with adverse decisions . so , why did the imf flip otherwise ? the answer is apparent : china mounted a full-court complaint to changing one ’s minds . in august , a currency that had been loosened mildly .
but foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not the reason for america ’s trade deficit . the real reason is american spending more than it produces . the overall trade deficit is the result of saving and investment decisions by american households and firms . so foreign governments ’ policies affect only how deficits are distributed among america ’s trading partners . the reasons americans save and investment decisions drive an overall trade deficit are straightforward : if a country saves more of total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has its extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
many modi supporters argue that the problem of demonetization politics is the result of inept performance . but the truth is that his design was fundamentally flawed . there was no “ policy skeleton , ” no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence of alternative policy options . judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the news , it seems clear that no impact study took place . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent political environment that he created , modi had discussed going even further , shifting india toward a wholly “ close-less society . ”
washington , dc – the terrorism on the scale that witnessed in paris over the past month is nothing new in africa . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists – orchestrating attacks on a museum and beach resort . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram , famous for its abduction of 276 school girls in 2014 , has inflicted thousands of deaths with suicide bombings and assault on civilians . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab has carried out two major strikes , on nairobi ’s west gate shopping mall in 2013 and on garissa university in 2015 , as well as a series of lesser manifestations of terror . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , the gunmen belonging to an al qaeda affiliate stormed a radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 .
that no longer applies to the thousands of princes whom they had produced . royal perks include lifetime sinecures and domination of the civil service , which allows princes to award deals and receive commissions to their own salaries . thus , the saudi regime is disintegrating , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are rising . indeed , with the royalty ratio to dress commoners now within one thousand ( versus one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing a princely privileges , pay , and demands on posts has never been more acute . as the older generation dies , the new generation has come down to fight off customers .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s holdout creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to pay for our debt ? ” over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . like the worst drought in living memory devastated the harvests and decimated livestock , almost $ 1 billion was been mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , health , and clean water provision . that was in 1986 , well before public campaigns and initiatives that eliminated much of africa from crushing and unpayable debt burdens . nonetheless , nyerere ’s question still stands like the dark cloud over somalia .
one is whether the fed will actually truly exit from qe as soon as it signaled . there is a strong probability that weaker american growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal from imf liquidity support . the consequences , sharp capital-flow reversals that now pervade all risky emerging-market assets , have not been pretty . brazil and other countries that have complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars , ” ” ” ” ” have now suddenly gotten what they wished for : the likely premature effect of the fed ’s qe exit . whether a correction in risky assets is temporary , or a run on a particular market will depend on several factors .
berkeley – ever since the end of 2014 , we have been advocating a itc model for america ’s governance , based on the tenth amendment of the american constitution , which states that “ the powers not delegated to the united states by the constitution , ” or prohibited by it by states , are either reserved for states respectively , or for people . increasingly , california has been exercising such constitutional rights as france . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , it might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction , which has undermined the case for fiscal consolidation that is favored so heavily in europe . with the exception of a japanese participant , all had first-hand experience with the wrenching asian financial crisis of the late 1990s . i was unable to resist the temptation to draw asia into a european debate . but , since davos , i have taken away a very different conclusion . i moderated a session on “ the new context in east asia , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan .
big scientific minds have learned over the course of many decades to “ read ” ” ” the earth ’s history to understand how the climate system works . it has deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( such as satellites reading detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . likewise , they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( for example , satellites reading detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . likewise , the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message . indeed , we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that damage food supplies and the quality of life for the planet .
some integration advocates see a united europe as a powerful partner by the us . others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival center of power , however unrealistic this appears to be . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that americans chafe at constraints on their ability to seize america 's military hegemony . some commentators have started to point to america 's divergent perspective on america 's and europe on the role of international law as opposed to the use of force , in dispute dispute . because europeans are irrelevant militarily , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy rather than military might to resolve disputes .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august tested europe ’s security system , and the system failed to meet its core mission of ensuring shared security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe must revisit its current security arrangements , by underscoring what has happened , and take this analysis into account in reforming those arrangements . even before the georgian crisis , russia already saw the need to restate europe ’s security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions , and function together . we suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security , in order to ensure equality of security throughout europe . europe believes that the russian initiative is well grounded and has shown an interest in launching such a project .
princeton – should the rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacist groups be met with violence ? that question was raised by the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . a woman , heather heyer , was killed , and 19 people injured as james baker , a white supremacist , drove his car at high speed into a crowd of counter-protesters . white supremacists held a rally to protesting the planned removal , from the public park of the statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the direcfederate army , during the civil war . a counterprotest was organized and the street fighting broke out .
china ’s own modest experiments with local elections were supplemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy ” . chinese officials hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly using keypad polling devices and hand-held computers to decide how the city should spend an estimated $ 6 million publicly works budget . zeguo exercise was deemed to be immensely successful and has been replicated elsewhere in china . these are taking the form of a high-tech city hall meeting . and wen hinted that village elections could be expanded to the next level of government – township administration – over the next several years .
eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life and secure food and livelihoods for the billions of people . european regulators have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs ; have blocked the market-access of countries with a track record of illicit fishing , penalized europe ’s rogue operators , and helped promote singapore or red carded ” reform their fishery laws . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated seafood traceability – data and intelligence gathering – that helps pinpoint exact where the seafood that occurs from , and when and by whom it has captured . for example , such efforts – the electronic documentation scheme for an atlantic bluefin tuna – represent one of the most powerful tools for eliminating illicit fishing . the eu , japan , switzerland , and the americas would be even more efficient when they aligned their policies to prevent illegal criminals from accessing their markets , allowing legitimate operators to benefit from a “ supercharged ” level of access .
but the urban poor , faced with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager provision of services , have become vulnerable to epidemics , of malnutrition-based childhood illnesses , aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they are also likely to be hardest hit by natural disasters such as droughts and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . indeed , many potential solutions stem from the opportunities for innovation created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentration of poverty help to create fragile environments that spawn civic disorders , resulting in death and injury . but a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market cities could improve and sustain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , embracing successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes .
that was followed by a june 2001 court decision to set a date for trial , making it possible at last to present evidence against those individuals . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring high military officers to trial . regrettably , the trial indefinitely has been delayed because defendants had appealed the case . our successes of myrna mack are notable but achieving them has proven challenging : police interrogator was assassinated ; judges were alleged to have been injured ; and witnesses had fled in exile . wined and campaigns have been harassed to discredit me organized .
proponents of geoengineering are right on one thing : confronting a climate emergency that demands radical and urgent action . some major economies , including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , just as regions and towns have now formally recognized the scale of the crisis . that certainly was n’t happening at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 and reinforced the point last month , with its united nations climate change and finland report . the question is whether this will translate into commitment .
mediating between a variety of systems and looking beyond the current incarnation of additional countries was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , but it no longer has the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world ; nor does it rally the europeans themselves . with both the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a significant diplomatic role , and italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors , the conclusion is quite simple : partly by default and partly because of the sheer energy and imagination of their young president , this is france ’s moment . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is perfectly in tune with france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gaullist tradition . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s superpower with its close historical and cultural relationship with russia , is at long last due to the political cycle .
cambridge – john maynard keynes , who wrote the rules along harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as a temporary expedient but as a enduring feature of the global economy . they understood that a democratic country would need the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . john maynard keynes , who wrote the rules along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as a temporary expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . they understood that a democratic country would need the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . the bretton woods regime had collapsed in the 1970 ’s due to either inability or unwillingness – it is far from clear which to lead governments to manage a rising tide of capital inflows .
over time , improved attribution forensics may enhance the role of punishment ; and improved defenses through encryption or machine learning may enhance the role of prevention and denial . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks , and the increasing importance of internet entanglement to their own economic well-being , cost-benefit calculation of the cyberwarfare utility , could make a difference . in any case , the strategic stability in cyberspace will be very difficult to sustain . because there is a rise in technological innovation and faster than in the underground realm of nuclear weapons , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened reciprocal reciprocal fear of a surprise . but if that makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to verify , it may still be possible to impose limits on some of the many types of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) , and negotiate crude rules of the road that limit conflict .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto the deal proposed by un secretary general ban ki-moon ’s special envoy , former finnish president martii ahtisaari . even then , the us agreed to another four months of eu-us-russia negotiations to ensure that none is left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgian , on the other hand , russia has moved from its support of its territorial integrity to disrupt the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do just that . the georgian conflict was followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence . now , russia must ask itself about the relationship between short-term military victories and longer-term economic prosperity .
the democracies that have built that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ concerns . the fracturing of the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world . the authoritarians and the populists would like nothing more than to sow the sense of chaos and the loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision illustrates , once again , that europe relies far too heavily on the us for its security and prosperity .
knowledge-based organizations embody a wide array of alliances with the media , and play an important role in influencing the behavior of public opinion as much as diplomacy does . modern international diplomacy makes it more and more dependent on groups that make the rules , set standards , and gather technological data . knowledge-based institutions also are better equipped to use the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . a host of international negotiations on issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit such alliances . on the environmental front , new institutions emerge that target their work to harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly those used in programs that certify sustainable resource use , as occurred in forests and fisheries .
to be sure , a grand new coalition government , comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) , was formed . but it took more than five months for center-right parties to agree , with the largest opposition party now the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) . likewise , germany has fallen victim to populist forces . nor was the strong showing by populist parties in this month ’s snap election in italy , where the anti-migrant league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote . in a country that seemed to have earned a broadly vaccinated against populism by its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development .
most important , the government appears backtracking on a commitment to allowing a binding referendum to open up the world ’s oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea . reelection is permissible only for a candidate nominated by the same old party for which they originally ran and enabled laws by independent nominees , ballot initiatives , and referenda remain vague . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly split on the issue , and nobody will invest a cent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex may be overturned in 2015 , as opposition claims do . likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to roil the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers of political and electoral reforms .
whatever the shape it took , it had begun to get some heavy blows a few years ago ( analogous to the crises that hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that central banks that relied on it had not paid enough attention to asset-price bubbles . that a boom-and-bust cycle might have occurred without inflation should not have come as a surprise . indeed , central bankers had told themselves that they had been lending asset markets to all the attention that they earned , by specifying that house and equity prices might have benefited enormously from implied information concerning goods held by inflation . but this breakout clause proved insufficient : with the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy was excessively loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by a upsurge in inflation .
but , even for full-time employees , firms might opt for a relatively small fine rather than a provider of insurance . that fine is $ 2,000 per employee , far less than today ’s average premium of $ 16,000 on employer-provided family policies . it is estimated that employers can shirk a mandate by cutting a worker ’s workweek to below 30 hours ( which a law defines as full-time employment ) . rather than incur a cost premium for an enacted policy , a clever employer may pay a fine not to provide insurance and increases employees ’ pay by enough to have more spendable cash once purchasing the insurance policy . not providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its staff have incomes that entitle them to a government subsidy ( of which they are now available below four times the level of poverty ) .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare short , want their own revenge , and therefore continue to attack blair for his own `` lies . '' so far , blair has proved his resilience to such accusations . or is it even more of a serious question about the prime minister 's losing faith in his own people , including with some of his erstwhile friends and allies ? indeed , he went on a counteroffensive , notably against the bbc , which did not wholly encourage war with enthusiasm . but does the insecurity now swinging blair like the vulture now odinga smitter to smash the appetiztic image ?
it adamantly opposed a few significant and promising new human-rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and a new anti-torture mechanism . yet , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly enlisted in late july by the un ’s economic and social council . on the protocol of torture , the us sought to derail the establishment of a universal system of detention visits , under the optional protocol to the convention against torture . here america found itself allied with some odd bedfellows that it normally rebukes as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe – . the increasingly obsessed at the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny has contributed to the widespread erosion of the un ’s human-rights monitor system .
nor will it be sufficient to remind the historic advantages of engagement and britain ’s distinguished centennial role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery in europe . what needs to be said is this : britain is at its best , when it sees itself as europe ’s leader . the britain that has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should , once again , be brought to the forefront of a progressive movement , spearheading action to fight climate change , resisting protectionism , and spurring sustainable growth . it must take the lead in mobilizing europeans to do the work of the global economy for the people , protecting them from lawlessness and inequity . just as britain once led europe in fighting fascism , supporting its democratic aspirations , and internationalizing the continent ’s reaction to the 2008 global recession , it should be within europe that leads from the front ranks .
the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing business , from airline airlines to us foods . yet the expectations of reasonable consumer protection are set to build in the us . when a company sells you a car that , say , is not properly tested , resulting in injury , a firm paying a price . a restaurant can not deflect responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign , which says “ customers beware . ” when it comes to facebook , moreover , users simply are n’t passive consumers , given the company traffics in their data .
the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who comes and passes ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe remain in their destination country , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . the eu ’s asylum system is uniquely ill-prepared to deal with a new generation of refugees that ineligible under the existing framework because they are fleeing not from the particular acts of persecution but from the disintegration of their states . so what is to be done ? they may be granted “ humanitarian protections ” or granted “ discretionary leave ” to remain ” in the short run ; but then they may be deported as illegal migrants . temporary residency status , in europe or outside of the eu , would be sensible if a rapid return to “ normalcy ” in refugees ’ countries was a reasonable prospect .
as a result , very few people have noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformative its agenda , how well she thought it out , and how audaciously she sought to manage it . in other words , mrs. obama manages to establish himself , unprecedentedly as “ people ’s first lady . ” she has meticulously studied not just jackie – a comparison apparent from her sheath dresses , cuban-wearing collars , and a page-boy haircut , but also the triumphs and setbacks of that other glamorous but underestimated stealth , princess diana . princess di ’s legacy in the generating iconography that has opened the way for enormous social change is grossly underappreciated . in her brief lifetime , she has often been lauded for degree ( her beauty and style ) that is secondary to her work on the job , and derided for another aspect of her character ( her emotation and her messy personal life ) that is just beside the point .
the protracted brexit process is hampering the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , whereas the shorter-term impact of governments ’ global growth on trade tariffs complicates the task for both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies currently under mooted might , if not well-designed , increase the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thus further compound the task of central bankers . rather , both are preoccupied with further round of stimulus involving even more policy and policy risk . the notion of a “ people ’s ” – that is , the more direct channeling – of central-bank financing toward populists is gaining increased attention from both sides of the political spectrum . other risks are already yielding on the headaches of central bankers .
he himself presided over a number of violations , a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 . he resigned only after winning re-election to parliament . clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against governments . indeed , many opposition groups have engaged in dirty tricks . even so , elections have represented significant strides .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been truly impressive . its targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
yet asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . its combined gdp has grown from $ 95 trillion in the 1970 ’s to just $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region that is unique in its capacity to convene meetings involving all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the us to china and russia . yet asean ’s long-term progress remains undeniable . over the short run , it seems to be moving like a crab , with two steps forward , one step back , and one step sideways . asean continues to confront significant challenges .
humans ’ goals are revealed solely by observing their economic activities . as a result , glimcher is skeptic of prevailing economic theory and he is seeking a physical basis in his own brains . much of modern economic and finance theory blames the assumption that humans are rational , so that they systematically maximize individual happiness , or , as economists like it would call them , their “ utility . ” when samuelson took up the topic in his 1947 book , he did not look to the brain , relying instead on “ exposing ” preference . under samuelson ’s guidance , a generation of economists emphasized their research not on any physical structure underlying thinking and behavior , but only on the assumption of rationality .
with no sign of rising inflation and growth still tepid and fragile , many have anticipate chronic sluggish growth , with some even worried that another global recession . but policymakers have one more alternative : a shift to a “ purer ’s ” fiscal policy , in which they directly finance government spending by printing money – a so-called “ helicopter drop ” – has been all but certain . the new money would circumvent the financial and corporate sectors and go straight into thirstiest horses : the middle – and lower-income consumers . central-bank balance sheets have been expanding , and policy rates have reached their “ no longer zero ” level at the end of the year . there is ample cheap water ; it seems , but the horse refuses to drink .
over the next several months , newspapers and broadcasters have fled to the story as snowballed into a intended national obsession . the case went to a local trial , where the judge had ruled what had been “ an accidental traffic disturbance ” and issued a driver of two-year suspended sentences . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he had gone easy on her because her husband had been related to senior provincial figures . it quickly became a narrative of “ rich versus poor , ” widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . alarmed by the public ’s reaction , harbin magistrate ordered that a lawful reopened be , only to have the suspended punishment confirmed when the event concluded this march .
repeated military interventions by major muslim nations , egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey , among others , have impeded orderly political development . but these countries ’ rising middle class began to shift their political systems in another direction , – a testament to the power they now wield . that power has surged for several reasons , most significant in terms of demographic . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at the dadrance – the upper twenties . with over half of these countries ’ population populations below the age of 30 , political development has stalled , notwithstanding inter-country recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
the objective is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the ability of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . the rules need to impose limits on deficits , spending and debt , and require transparency so that the public knows what to do . third , on a panel ’s list is increased infrastructure investment . while latin american economies now do well by reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . if matched by a genuine commitment to developing their fiscal credibility , countries could boost their economic growth substantially .
all too often , developing countries have seized on new technology – “ distributing tablets to schoolchildren ! ” – without having given enough thought to how they would be employed in specific national contexts . this has resulted in many disappointing led pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable , at scale . a new report by the pathways for the technological and inclusive development commission , based at oxford university ’s blavatnik school of government , indicates how countries can address the issue . second , beyond addressing the allure of sophisticated innovations , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success . the report urges them to establish a foundation for “ digital-building blocs ” – including basic infrastructure and skills – to harness positive education and health services .
that is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue growing at 10 % per year on average . and , in part , it is because growth is not unconditional to be desirable : citizens might be better off with a bit smaller and clean air . yet many countries remain poor enough to host their robust growth potential , and a range of others , albeit wealthy , still have not recovered from the global financial crisis . overall , however , there is a difficult way to deny that the global economy lacks the momentum . so there must be something else holding down growth .
in april 2009 and , again , in the april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped out in the streets of bangkok to seek reelection , but were dispersed by the army , with 91 dead . despite their setbacks and lost their credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , the red-shirts were growing in number and show monthly against abhisit ’s administration . pad ringleaders now denounce all of their politicians as corrupt , and extol virtue by the monarchy . and , after two years , the yellow shirts , too , have reverted to the streets to show their disillusion with abhisit . exploiting the weapons of the anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the result of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to thailand ’s extra-constitutional solution .
industry analysts are predicting that ai will drive growth in the years and decades ahead . gartner , a research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value before 2021 , with pwc predicting that ai could contribute as fast as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . some estimates indicate that ai companies could save as many as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and ai ’s ai applications will go far beyond saving , because automation will spur innovation , improve forecasting , upgrading operations , and lead to a better customer service . in any technological transition , those leading change may not lose sight of a human element ; there are some things that even the smartest machines can never do .
as is often the case , it is not what you do not know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . and the notion that cities and countries actually do specialize , and thus should specialize , is probably one of those very wrong and dangerous ideas . but , while some ideas are intuitive or obvious , they could also be wrong and dangerous . because they can not do well at all , they need to concentrate on what they do best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . they should make a few things sound very well and exchange them for other goods that they produce better elsewhere , thereby exploiting gains from trade .
it can continue to do no more than the bare minimum to preserve the euro . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred option , at least until after her next election . the situation is deteriorating , and in the longer term it is bound to become unsustainable . europe would be infinitely better off if germany made the definitive choice between eurobonds and an exit from a eurozone exit , without regard for the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well as greece . the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose .
for russia , closer ties with china are no doubt tempting . but the bilateral relationship has deepened markedly lately , exemplified by last week ’s shanghai forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other deals covering areas ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders gush that their two countries are now on better terms than at any time in respect . after a five-year period of international sanctions imposed on russia following its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures are providing a seemingly welcome reprieve . but , before putin places too little faith in xi ’s regime , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet “ dissident song , ” “ people ” are brothers ; i will hug the “ chinese , ” ” which scolegfated early attempts at a sclerotic early human union .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council expires on may 30 november , which is the perfect timing of the polish opposition . following his parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , and opposition voters already view tusk as the only viable contender . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the eu could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
and if you want him to make payments , rezz.it helps you to collect without feeling like cheapskate . so , you can set a high price to compensate for inconvenience and make money on the side . and you might post different prices for different times : $ 20,000 to be worth of rents from my home in london during the olympics ; $ 10,000 over christmas ; or $ 1,000 per other time . you do n’t particularly want to lend to them out every day ; but if someone is willing to pay , say , $ 200 to rent them on a dinner party , the trouble might be high . or you might actually have a set of under-used dining room chairs .
following the high-level negotiation between chinese vice president liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer this month , outstanding problems are to be agreed in beijing in early november . fifth , the two parties should regard a november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance to sign an agreement . getting the agreement done before a trash thanksgiving will be critical to undergird america ’s business and consumer confidence for the christmas season . i am one of the few commentators who has argued every year that , despite the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make a deal more likely than no deal . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump might have thrown wrench into that process .
european institutions , just as germany does , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” while france favors the concept of european sovereignty . but the two concepts are often used interchangeably and are rarely defined precisely . we understand strategic autonomy as a capacity to set one ’s own priorities , and make one person ’s own decisions on matters related to foreign policy and security , combined with institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in cooperation with third parties or alone if they need to be . we also analyzed the likely barriers , difficulties , and conflicts should by germany and europe ’s policymakers decide to pursue that goal . in seeking clear matters , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ”
in fact , eradication of poppy crops not only harms local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals ; it also fails : opium production last year was at an all-time high . in september , the united nations office on drug crime announced that poppy cultivation soared by a record-high 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it destroys the single cropland that grows out of western hardening climate – and thus serves as the primary source of income to millions of people . as a way of tackling this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run scientific pilot projects to research the opium licensing system for afghanistan – an essential component of the economic reconstruction process . such a new , long-term , economically sustainable solutions are urgently needed – one that directly engages with the communities suffering the most – to help sustain the support of a deeply ingrained rural population .
the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that the clash of civilizations that was predicted ten years ago and which must be avoided . muslim beliefs counts billions of men and women worldwide among their adherents . roughly five percent of them have declared war on our civilization and are prepared to engage in murder to put an end to western domination . ninety-five percent of muslims , including a majority of their own religious leaders , wish only to live at peace , imposing the end of the prolonged humiliation on islam that only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can allow . yet the bush administration scares the us .
likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb doing business as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting bailouts and monetary financing of core eurozone members ’ debt . but blindly sticking to principle would have been an extremely risky option for the ecb . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what came to be called “ redenomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed germany ( and other northern european ) taxpayers , with no approval by their parliaments , to a potential obligation to bail out greece , too , whom it – exactly ? indeed , it seems that a typically northern european taxpayer supports a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european debtors .
such a partnership could drive trump to strike a bargain with iran that is more than willing to fight against sunni radicals in iraq and syria . trump has also expressed his interest in cooperating with russia to bring down isis ; ostensibly oblivious to the reality of russia ’s involvement in syria is focused on silencing assad a regime . by equating isis with the fight against isis in the fight against the soviet union , trump elevates a terrorist organization to the status of a great power . this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , again playing into the hands of isis recruiters . now iran is pressuring russian long-range bombers to use one of its own air bases to hit syria , complicating obama ’s already-arduous effort to reach out to his understanding with russian president vladimir putin on the end of the civil war .
indeed , a recent mckinsey global survey has revealed not only that europeans aspiring to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( particularly in health care and education ) , but also are prepared to accept the tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said that they would favor change to the status quo , even if it required some of the sacrifice . as it stands , europe ’s per capita economic output remains well below the 2008 level . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) set by the stability and growth pact . and the status quo is at a level of urgent need for change .
colombo – sri lanka was deservedly praised for the progress that has been made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . with an economy growing at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , the state ’s education and health statistics are impressive . all developing countries are facing myriad challenges , but this is especially the case for a country that has suffered an acute , protracted civil war . the government will need to set priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach . underlying wars , such as the battle with the tamil tigers , typically entail social and economic grievances like real or perceived discrimination , and a government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately .
very few people at the vatican – indeed , in europe at great – had any genuine knowledge in those days of the massive industrial might of the united states . and the denunciations of nazism might have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . the western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in grand military struggles . the pope believed that he could either condemn the two totalitarian powers or condemn them not . but any condemnations of the kind of condemnation of communism would be exploited by nazi propaganda as their support of hitler ’s war efforts .
networked , effects , and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even a unified , closed-room seem anywhere ; the resulting losses extend to the entire network . and the data traveling instantaneously around the world are oblivious to national boundaries . i believe that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles that petroleum products and the inner combustion engine played in the twentieth century . by its nature , the data easily overcomes physical constraints .
in both countries , governments focused their scarce political capital and bureaucracy on areas other than trade liberalization . meanwhile , serious trade reform did not start until 1991-93 . because both india and china have had increased trade substantially , both are thought to be the “ globalizers ” by the world bank ’s criterion . but , as their experience reveals -- along with the experiences of many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization is hardly ever a factor channeling higher growth and expanding trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catching up to this straightforward reality .
he seemed deeply engaged but made no comment , asking me only if i had some things in writing . i felt that a prodigious , restless energy that i had been unable to turn off had it any time soon after looking for it . i felt that a request was a test – one that i was prepared to take , since i conducted maps with me in the forward air-control aircraft . he suggested producing typed copy , and provided me with a office of the sort i spent . i said that i did , but that it was in longhand .
in west africa , for example , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of sms weather alerts to faraway farmers . currently , such kinds of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is slowly changing , especially as more people in emerging economies link themselves to mobile networks , with collection and sharing agricultural information becoming increasingly accessible . in egypt , for example , sudan , and ethiopia , local-level extension services deliver real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . in mongolia , rural herders receive real-time information on diseases to help them sustain the health of their livestock .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape another clarion call for a reversal of globalization ’s retreat . faltering trade , it is supposed , must be the adverse trend that needs to be addressed . but the assumption is simplistic , at best . to be sure , efforts were made to grasp the current slowdown . the trouble lies in the lack of an understanding of what drove trade growth in the last couple of decades .
just as china resisted the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 – a decision that may have played a prominent role in arresting regional contagion – it must stay the course today . that is all the more important in a disorderly qe climate , where china ’s role as an anchor of currencies may be taking on even greater significance than it did at the end of the 1990s . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would result in a sharp escalation in a global currency war . in an era of unprecedented rounds of quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for major world exporters ; first the u.s. , then japan , and now europe . if china joined that race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and world financial markets would still suffer another source of severe instability .
and , even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would start from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and debt . prolonging the current expansion will require great care . america needs a well-focused approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers and business leaders also must be made more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , there should be better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers . policymakers , especially congress , need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market accidents , while doing more to support growth .
nonetheless , the globalized economy ’s increasingly complex policy challenges demand a fresh look at that process . for many years , the imf has enlisted its member countries on a process known as “ supervision , ” ” ” ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on each country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these periodic recheckups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and preserve economic stability . this is one of the most important reforms to the fund ’s job in the 30 years since its surveillance was designed . this is one of the fund ’s most important reforms of the 30 years since its surveillance process was designed .
four measures are needed to achieve this . first , a debt conference is needed with the creditors of southern european governments and banks forgiving portion of greece ’s debt . the creditors relinquishing part of their entitlement must comprise the official entities , first and foremost the ecb , which now has largely bailed out private-sector lenders . second , eurozone members , whose path to regaining competitiveness through price and wage reductions is far too long and grueling , and whose societies risk falling prey to the inevitable imposition of austerity , need to exit the monetary union temporarily . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial assistance , which would not have been necessary for long , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness .
steps in this direction would greatly improve the ukrainian government ’s relations with both the eu and the us . finally , the eu should insist that ukrainian officials halt all politically motivated criminal cases and release those incarcerated for political crimes . this is vital , because ukraine met only partly with imf agreements that it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . these three steps would not resolve all of the hardships in ukraine ’s relations with the eu . selective use of justice badly undermined the yanukovych administration ’s reputation .
arguing that his efforts to improve “ relations ” with russia are in america ’s national interest , trump , soon after the summit invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and his desire to defy his own critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and also in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met at reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions just look like more kowtowing , raising other american leaders ’ hackles . for many members of america ’s security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much like the soviet union ’s did during the cold war . putin has just reciprocate with trump ’s invitation to come to the kremlin .
washington , dc – this month , europe ’s citizens will head to the polls to choose the european parliament ’s seven member states to represent their 507 million people . how the election campaign unfolded marks a small but significant step in the rise of first supranational political space in europe , indeed in world – history . to be sure , european parliamentary elections were bringing smaller shares of the electorate to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to almost 60 % in 1978-1994 . but the participation rate over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in the american parliamentary election . given the european parliament ’s perceived remoteness and widespread frustration with europe ’s red bureaucracy , levels of participation and movements toward transnational politics are remarkable .
the bomb , however , has not been encased in metallic , and a terrorist was the only person has been killed . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as though the fbi ’s chief was personally equipped to replace one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at a garden party . but it is merely this highly personalized form of politics that the saudi arabia government has adopted with defecting al-qaeda members . indeed , this policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . the highly personalized politics shape what might be called saudi arabia ’s theatrical status , which keeps royals firmly in power .
it was said of prime minister levi eshkol who spoke seven languages , all in yiddish . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he had to leave government in 1974 during the yom kippur war . perhaps eban was too urbane , too many of the scholar and gentlemen ’s were to power for the time being – in disraeli ’s sament phrase – on a summit with the greasy meaning of pole . of eban could be said to speak ten languages and all of them with an oxford/cambridge accent . yet what appealed to the outside world was n’t always an asset in the crude and tumble of israeli politics .
as a result , southern europe has adopted the economic configuration , in which its wage , price , and productivity levels have made perfect sense only so long as it spent € 13 for each € 12 that it earned , with northern european governments financing the missing euro . meanwhile , northern europe has adopted wage and productivity levels , which have made sense only as long as it has spent less than one euro on every euro it has earned . but whether europe as the whole avoids the lost decades of economic growth remains in the balance , and depends on whether southern european governments can rapidly restore competitiveness . a process by which southern europe has become uncompetitive early on has been fueled by market price signals – the incentives those signals created for entrepreneurs – and by how entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses play out in a macroeconomic way . north europeans with money to invest have been willing to lend at extraordinarily easy terms to those in the southern eager to spend , and ample pre-2007 expenditure has made employers willing to raise wages rapidly .
a worldwide economic downturn is the last thing that the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risk , including potential no-deal brexit and populist gains in europe ’s parliament election in may . of course , while trump will not spare his allies , his primary objective remains that of china . although america maintains america ’s military , technology , financial , and soft-power edge , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan us support for a more confrontational approach . after all , the competition between america and china extends far beyond trade . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of using us technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression .
a common theme , which emerges from studying so-called place-based policies , such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the powerful contingent nature of success . few policies operate at the shelf and reliably across varied settings . likewise , competitions among states and localities to attract large employers with tax degrees and other subsidies work especially badly . they can and must respond , periodically changing their behavior only through the iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms . recent high-level deals for foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin and new york respectively , have blown up .
shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing , following decades of spectacular expansion . it abound , naysayers abound , though never really minded them . if china undertakes a sustained , comprehensive stimulus efforts to raise productivity , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risk of a financial crisis , and complete its transformation into a consumption-driven , high-income economy with a large and affluent middle class . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than likely would be as likely if policymakers continued investment-led growth . for the rest of the world , china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : the clear path forward .
london – as governments across western europe embarked on bailing out banks and their depositors , east europeans were watching nervously , insecure about what a global financial storm would mean for them . now that a storm has hit , europe ’s fragile bonds of european solidarity are being put on the test . two countries , hungary and ukraine , have already requested major aid packages . several more could accomplish this over the next month , unless frozen credit markets thaw . if things persist until the end of the year that can not be excluded , many more countries could experience a severe banking crisis .
but the big question for health professionals is whether there is a amount or the quality of their foods to blame . this has an important distinction , because quantity is a user ’s determined , whereas quality determines industries . some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods , – especially sugar – are just as addictive as cocaine and heroin . for example , sugar is consistently a ingredient of the highest score on a yale scale of food addiction that measures people ’s use of food cravings . the processed food industry tells us that “ you need the sugar with which to live . ”
a closely coordinated effort amongst both the private and public-sector partners to deliver a oral polio vaccine to each child under five was the key to success . globally , international donors and un agencies have been working closely with national governments , tallying the precision needs of massive malaria-immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children . last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative delivered almost two billion doses of polio vaccine to 575 million children in 94 countries alone . in each country , partners institutions including un health minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , community-based groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations collectively during and carefully planned each immunization campaign . each detail , from the numbers of the bicycles and boats needed to deliver the vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , or to those of cool boxes needed to keep the vaccine flaunt and budgeting .
with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it is becoming easier for other powers to pursue an “ divide-and-conquer ” strategy . this has long been russia ’s strategy ; now it is adopted by china and the us . still , one wonders whether the eu is equipped to put itself on a united front . in 2016 , for example , southern and east eu member states relying on chinese investment managed to irrigate a joint eu declaration on china ’s territorial disputes in the south china sea . in an increasingly “ deal-based ” world , the new 6 may offer the defense of a rules-based system .
meanwhile , corruption is among africa ’s endemic problems . indeed , it is a key theme in nigeria ’s approaching a presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s highhandedness but unsuccessful struggles to curb it . evict a state from direct economic activity , curb its power-station powers , and improve both economic efficiency and governance . the causes of globalization , however , were meant to blow off the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . harvard political scientist annevesh kapur suggests why this is n’t happening .
florence – europeans who are eager to revive the continent ’s unification process have recently been turning their attention at the founding of the united states . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and the european union ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . indeed , the creation of america ’s constitution and birth of the american people offer reasons for hope that some of the more difficult issues facing europe could one day be resolved . many on the left , however , dismiss america ’s precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are all too dissimilar from those encountered then . others , accepting that federalist principles might be well positioned to address the problems facing europe ’s common market , are despair that the “ europe of europe ” who could bring about this new political architecture miss .
moscow – ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have undoubtedly spooked an authoritarian duo in chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . the moscow protests , the biggest in many years , need to be keeping putin up at night , or disproved by such unabated brutality . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has proved effective in control , even preening photos in tight leather outfits his favorite motorcycle . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
by 651 , nearly all of the major urban centers in persia were under arab control , adding momentum to the process . the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to khorasan border province and arabization of persia began , with persians taking arab names and conversion to “ islam . ” mass conversion to islam among persians was a first step toward establishing a first caliphate , a political-religious state that comprises all muslims at the time . effort by various forces seeking to control or restore a caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history . at the various times in our history , caliphates have extended across asia , africa , and parts of europe .
cambridge – in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” ” ” in russia in the coming years : just as oil prices that had plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , recovering and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel , a russian would return to the stagflation of the 1970 ’s - and 1980s . sure enough , between 2010 and 2012 , gdp growth from a respectable 4 % proved to be propelled by the post-crisis recovery and further rising oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-term factors have been exhausted , with a brezhnev-like period of stagflation beginning . both the russian government ’s unwillingness to tackle corruption and strengthen the country ’s legal institutions reflect a perverse , still-stable , political equilibrium . russia ’s political elite understands that the us economy has a capable of 5-6 % annual growth .
left-wing proponents of so-called “ modern monetary theory ” argue that larger , persistent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of recession , owing to the risk of runaway inflation . following this logic in the uk , labour party has proposed “ people behind ” qe , ” ” whereby a central bank would print money to fund direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his life-colleagues blackrock , have called for helicopter drops : direct monetary transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his fellow fed chairman blackrock , have been calling for helicopter drops : direct monetary transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . despite differences on their terminology , all of these propositions variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits that monetized central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand when the next slump hits .
when the private sector does , translate ideas into bankable projects , they are often extremely difficult , because many difficult-to-coordinate decisions or steps are involved . most of the developing world , i know , spend too little on depreciating the good projects that they will pay . so , suppose a toll road project is approved , a concession treaty is prepared , and the companies that offer ahead . bidders need to plan for two phases : engineering , bidding and construction ( epc ) ; and a longer stage of operation , when toll revenues are collected to recover incurred costs and expected returns . there are plenty of uncertainties along both phases , but especially during the epc , which could last 3-7 years , depending on the project .
with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction commitments , one might think that the global effort to address climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change , or ignore the determination by local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have not . nonetheless , to get and keep all governments on board , a low-carbon transition must be inclusive . besides , there is an obvious business rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and ratings agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for their potential “ stranded assets , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” such as oil and gas projects that will become outdated as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter lives spans than previously anticipated , and financial portfolios that rely heavily on such assets will increasingly be endangered .
but here the people engaged in the former “ solidarity ” movement – for them a community movement rather than an individual , a movement for public rather than private freedom – form a new bloc of euro-antagonists . in practice , that movement also motivated little more than fear of change . an advocate of “ family values ” is , whatever that may mean . a less “ agressive ” antieuropeanism arises from a trend that struggles for age-old values like honor and virtue . more recently , a small group of members of parliament ( quite a large one – 30 deputies ` ) left a majority post-solidarity party and composed a new “ polish family ” party with the motto that the ruling coalition is in “ the services of brussels . ”
an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit the facts recently emerged from the paul woolley center for a study of dysfunctionality in capital markets , on the london school of economics . researchers there argue that in fragile speculative industries ( and finance has certainly been in that category in recent years ) , it is hard for investors to follow those managing their money . at some point , the executives may demand increased and higher returns in the upturn . they may see short-term returns , but they do not fully understand how those returns are generated . that may be part of the story , but competition for customer and customer seems intense between investment banks and others ; but it has collectively been a extravagantly rewarding at the expense of those customers .
new york – the united states is consistently ranked among the top ten countries for innovation , including by the insead ’s world innovation index . but , on the global peace index , it ranks 88th in 153 countries . conversely , bhutan ranks rank among the top 20 of the world ’s most peacetime nations ; but it does not even make it onto the indices of innovation . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , three - and six-fold on the innovation index , but only 28th and 29th , on the global peace index . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severely enough to cause an overall breakdown of the rule of law and order significantly impede creativity and innovation .
but merkel still defends weber , and besides macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders are reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . if the council succeeds in the ruling out weber as well as his populist supporters , macron will assert that it is as a success . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager , who is not from the epp , but who is , in a sense , the liberal spitzenkandidat – while elering them for michel barnier , from the epp but is no spitzenkandidat . finally , the election provides a check on german hegemony more broadly .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea , a former foreign secretary at the time , would become united nations secretary-general following kofi annan ’s ten-year-old tenure . annan inspired the world with his own diplomacy and the lead on poverty reduction and human rights , but the war in iraq divided the world and drew the attention and financial resources away from the crisis regions and critical long-term issues like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water . with recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global clout , there is an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention to the most critical challenges facing our planet . aside from the long-standing challenges of poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and the un reform agenda , the new secretary-general will inherits a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and elsewhere . recent attempts at reshuffling these countries ’ influence through threats and sanctions , as well as war , have been failing .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all on trade policy over the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression . an outfit called the doha round of global trade alert ( gta ) had run into the headlines , raising alarm bells about what it calls “ a protectionist juggernaut . ” gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions from the end of november 2008 , with china as the most common target . to be sure , that number has been consistently cited by the financial press as being . many complain that something similar , if smaller in scope , is taking place today .
if people enter a country to earn higher wages , the income pie available for distribution gets bigger ; but if it comes about for some social benefits , the pie gets smaller . such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , for it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and impose on the british grounds that it would reconsider their exit choices with their heads held high . given this , why no system in which host countries and countries share the costs of social benefits to migrants ? for one thing , host countries could assume the responsibility of administering benefits , for example , or , worse , unemployment . and countries of origin could continue to provide the benefits not associated with employer-paid employment , such as child staying at home and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrived .
what needs to be done has long been clear , at least for now . it has become common knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis either wrecks the eu or brings about a political union , and that with no solidarity-based solution to existing debt and a series of mutualization of new debt , europe may not be rescued . the price of the monetary union ’s survival , and thus that of the european project , has more to the community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . those who oppose it because they fear common accountability , remittances from the rich to the poor , and a loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s re-nationalization and therefore its exit from the world stage . no alternative – and certainly not the statusquo , that will work .
yet , by the standards of international negotiations and the european governance process , it has been handled exceptionally fast . the eu is not deprived of tools or “ structural funds ” that fund investment in poorer regions – but has no strategy to use them . more bugs will need to be fixed , including new bugs have found in fixes . thus , the outcome of months of discussion might be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” for investors , the reform process might seem unsound long and hesitant .
while educational opportunities and structures have been progressively diversified , the severe shortcoming of most european education systems remains : students had far too few choices , and their teachers , if they wanted to remain part of their occupations , must adhere to severely compartmentalized pedagogy . other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying equally . its schools are financed by local communities and operate within a national curriculum designed by parliament and government . as with corporate monopolies , large numbers of consumers ( students ) are often seen as a homogeneous class where all students can be educated on the basis of the same pedagogical approach . but schools must succeed in meeting the needs and abilities of individual children in ways that create learning adventure .
viewed from this perspective , they are in and out of the us prison system , and have little chance of ever getting the legal job done to keep them out of poverty . their children grow up free from their parents at home , and have no hope and support children . children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; as a result , they sometimes end up in jail or suffer violence or premature deaths . to break the cycle of poverty , the country needs investment in its children ’s future , not in the incarceration of 2.3 million people per year , many for nonviolent crimes that are symptoms of poverty . what is manifold about this is that america has missed a clear point , and has missed it for more than 40 years .
the comparison between the two approaches is obvious . in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages have not become a daunting problem , owing to a reasonably open-source immigration policy that has enabled the country to tap the talents that colombia , among others , has not maintained . colombia ’s policymakers had been hoping that , by implementing best-practice laws and regulations , somebody might come . and , if they may not , they may still bask in the international accolades that they had received from foreign-owned entities . the no-residential construction boom this produced helped not only to absorb a labor-intensive incumbent left rural areas , but also to achieve a remarkable decrease in inequality .
globally , countries that have spent far too little – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend less . so a recovery in global aggregate demand will still be weak , pushing global growth far lower . moreover , there is now massive public-sector re-leveraging in the advanced economies , with massive budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the enormous costs of the financial system ’s losses . the us , at best , is facing a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in the advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments begins to feed through to consume and investment . but over-saving countries in over-leveraged china , emerging asia , germany , and japan are not spending more to compensate by collapsing spending through deleveraging countries .
recent demands for more stringent regulation came when nothing as a result of the financial sector ’s opposition . surprisingly , too , the global dimension of that crisis has a positive side . the current crisis , the fall of wall street , is to be neo-liberalism what had been the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 . the international community is now charged with thinking about how to overhaul the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar catastrophe in the future . up to now , a major part of the problem has been eu unwillingness to cooperate .
unlike the french tradition ’s militant liberalism , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war from exploiting the state ’s coercive power of taxation as a weapon in the struggles of men ’s souls . in advocating disestablishment of both religious and secular “ orthodoxies , ” i am not eager to trivialize the significance of their continuous contest over their meaning of life . just as possible , a liberal state should be neutral on such matters , leaving it to every citizen to determine whether it should hand its financial support to the church of rome or anyone at bayreuth . it arises from the permanent significance of this " grand debate " that the state should strive to be neutral . after all , if a state ostentatiously snatches sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrate the ultimate convictions held by many of its disgruntled citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . an incumbent , represented by the united states , had broken down , and the latter , represented by china , is on the rise . following a path of least resistance will lead to a gradual process of disintegration in the international financial system . while international cooperation on regulatory reform is hard to achieve on piecemeal terms , it might seem skilled at a grand bargain that rearranges the entire financial order .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is frequently in the spotlight , typically taking popular acclaim . over the years , he has won important victories that limit state aid to business , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the benefits that are gained from his achievements are at risk , owing to a string of stunning courtroom defeats . within a matter of just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private party can appeal decision-making to the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions rejecting corporate mergers . with the competition case against the software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , ecb commissioner monti would need to rediscover his footing fast .
but time and again , humanitarian aid in africa has come short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980s . then , as now , food insecurity was predicted long before early hunger boangs were felt . so , too , have many proud and dignified humans been stripped of their livelihoods , forcing everyone to rely on a single tiny meal a day or none at all . making matters worse , these tragedies have become avoidable ; we have already known that these crises were approaching . drought and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and ample supply , could be averted .
the bottom chessboard comprises supranational relationships that cross borders outside of governments ’ control – everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to supranational terrorism . at that board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . at the same time , it is an important component of close civilian cooperation that affects the country ’s attractiveness or soft power . no government can control outcomes without the cooperation of the rest of the world . here the us needs europeans ’ assistance , and it makes no sense to call this a globally polar , either .
translation : a orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . making matters worse , they have both a motive and an opportunity to grow even bigger . as long as we allow cross-border banks to reach or near their current levels , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate failure . that form of government subsidy amounts to a huge implicit subsidy to the big banks . and , because these large financial institutions operate by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than they otherwise would have been .
and , by raising the costs of extracting fossil-fuel firms , it would contribute to the eventual phase-out of a failing sector that has no place in a climate-safe world . already , fossil-fuel companies and governments are confronting intensifying legal pressure . the dutch bloc urgenda and almost 900 co-plaintiffs have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt tougher climate policies . accordingly , typhoon survivors at the philippines have delivered a complaint to the country ’s human-rights commission , calling for an inquiry into the big fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility to cause climate change . fortunately , the world will not have to wait for moral suasion to perform the day .
several steps are needed to encourage a massive increase in the use of the internet in these additional locations : * telecommunications liberalization , including the entry of new providers of private service , is critical to reducing costs and diffusion of benefits . a few years ago , for example , chip-manufacturer chartered national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system linking its three factories and three customers in asia to its global customer network . it chose to out-source that operations to federal express , which uses a sophisticated , on-line system system to manage global deliveries and sales . as a result , the us national semiconductor saw its delivery cycle to customers ’ reduced sales between four weeks and one week , with distribution costs cut from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of sales .
as a result , the option of so-called “ helicopter money ” is increasingly being discussed . as long as governments run bigger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money – nominal demand undoubtedly will grow , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . one frequently is argued that retizing fiscal deficits would commit the central bank to keeping interest rates low forever , an approach bound to produce excessive core inflation . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes even by those same people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people fear a future “ inflation tax . ” but the discussion of this is riddled with confusions .
geneva – when lehman brothers declared bankruptcy ten years ago , it was suddenly becoming unclear who owed what should whom , who could not pay their debts , and who would go further . the result was that interbank credit markets freeze , wall street panicked , and companies went under , not only in the united states but around the world . in hindsight , the complacency of the run-up to the crisis was unambiguously unconscionable . and yet little has changed in its aftermath . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits have left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of low human-cycle volatility since the 1980s has been turning into yet another great depression .
should the spd , which votes on a coalition agreement in early december , block the formation of a new government ( unlikely to evolve , but not entirely off the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would be bad . for some , this is a cause for ambivalence . coalition partners disagree on how urgent it is to sort out on this issue . nonetheless , they have agreed that , within a year , an eu commission would provide various options and models to protect germany ’s parliament ’s rights , while providing assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . aside from a few minor particulars , the consensus prevails .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe , a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . badly needed bio-safety legislation in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already been delayed . indeed , any new gm crop variety needs to satisfy rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . at the same time , the world health organization has confirmed that “ no effects on human health ” have been shown to result in consumption by such foods . much of the problem lies with a small team of anti-gm activists , who object to technologies on “ moral ” grounds .
regulators ’ call to the eib for voluntary action will not amount much to much if it is simply the request by the derivatives industry for action against its own domestic financial interests . regulators ’ call to the eib for voluntary action will fall little short of what is simply the request for the derivatives industry to operate against its own financial interests . regulators may well need to turn to the bankruptcy laws to redress the underlying problem . perhaps regulators will find that they need to require that those regulated have desired contracts clauses . that solution will remain incomplete , but because not all derivatives traders are regulated by financial institutions , and because a number of lenders would find ways to circumvent the treaty and requirement . if coverage is not complete , one might expect the regulated to complain that they have been placed at a competitive disadvantage .
sedition was thus explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; in fact , mahatma gandhi was among her prominent victims , albeit far from his last one . the british concluded , in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ sedition laws ” adequate for a people ruled by a specifically male nationality and faith administration may or , in some respects , be insufficient , for a country under foreign rule . in other words , no free speech by indians was possible . but even that was not sufficient for britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition laws in england . the result was a section 124a by the polish penal code , under which any person who used “ words , signs , or visible ” representation … to excite disaffection against the government could be charged with sedition and potentially assassination .
seoul – china – already the world ’s largest exporter , producer , and the international-reserve-asset holder , it is poised to surpass the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured in purchasing-power-parity terms ) this year . indeed , the country ’s days of following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone . now , it is using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . after decades of actively participating in international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the wto , and the world trade organization – china has emerged from a revisionist power seeking to forge a new world order . last month , the us , china , and 20 more asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank .
progress on the single market helped drive competitiveness . new free-trade agreements give european economies access to major markets worldwide . and eu enlargement has enhanced europe ’s security substantially . these are , by all reasonable standards , remarkable uk-led achievements . achieving the paris climate agreement promises not only to preserve the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability .
the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened safety by the flow of us semiconductor ip to china and by acquiring semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment caps on the basis of china ’s behavior . a special report on semiconductors – fundamental to american national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s obama ’s council of technology and technology advisors – provides some answers . the report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , suggested that america is working with its own allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and cement export controls and inward investment limits . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand america ’s jurisdiction of the board of foreign investment ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions by foreign entities ) to a broader range of investment , including chinese venture capital and private-equity investments in us start-ups is consistent with this recommendation .
four decades ago , countries not only endured the immediate economic impact of opec ’s embargo ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles that require little or no fossil-fuel deposits , and increase the share of renewable electricity in electricity supply could ensure that a substantially hotter and less-pleasant world of 2050 that the ipcc warns against does not materialize . our livelihoods , not to mention those generated by future generations , should not be held hostage to our ongoing addiction to fossil fuels . rocky mountain institute of reinventing fire analysis shows that such a future is possible , offer market-driven strategies for powering a consumption-led economy that is 158 % greater in 2050 – without dependence on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . business-led innovations and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependency to more efficient renewable-energy systems .
luckily , two missed a target , and israel did manage to deploy a third . on the same day , hamas launched three mighty iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . the captured uranium was n’t weapons-grade ; indeed , international inspectors removed all sensitive material from iraq during the post-1991 gulf war ( thus absent from it when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but the episode represented a major escalation of hostilities , and served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear-armed reactors in warzones . but what international response , if any , would be ?
moreover , the oil-price surge , which has raised fears of yet another negative growth shock , has since receded . though dollar appreciation has taken some pressure off non-us economies , which rely on exports or foreign capital , it has increased the risk of an open currency war . at the same time , not all indicators are gloomy . the american economy reflects this dichotomy . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains strong in most major economies .
he inspired broad public enthusiasm for the quality of his products , as well as personal charisma . ( others became “ business ” executives , but only steve had become someone familiar and admired by the millions – including the romanian waiter – at british airways where i sit now . ) i first met steve back in 1979 , or 1980 , during a personal computer forum in ben roy . for some reason , it was held at a playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) . in the personal-computing business that moved apple from bulky apple ii to a sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve jobs ) , steve was the sole true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , because it accounted for 3 % average growth in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . from the end of the great recession , from 2011 to 2017 , america ’s economy grew at just 2.1 % per year , on average . now , what accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
but when those countries make up for their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of women elected should , all remaining equal , rises by about 10 % . in closed-list systems , incumbents should be zippered : male , female , male , female , female ( or vice versa ) . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in an estimated 20 % trump for female elections ) in systems that currently lack effective quota legislation . even so , in open-list systems , it should take 50 % more than a quota system . indeed , any accuracy of the impact of a quota percentages in open-list systems can not be predicted .
and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump tried to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . he also flouted the constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments , – money or personal contributions from foreign governments that do business , sometimes with the extravagant share , at his different hotels and golf clubs , and has found other ways to re-start the presidency . frustrated , for example , that congress had denied him any funding he wanted for his phantasmagical wall along the border with mexico , he simply plucked funds that congress had allocated for his department of defense . furthermore , trump has tried to steer government contracts toward favored firms or removed from those he himself , such as amazon , whose founder , jeff possess , also owns the washington post .
at times , lenders agree to exchange old bonds for new ones with either lower face value or lower interest payments . few governments refuse to pay at all in any form . when the debt becomes unsustainable , there are a few possible bargaining outcomes . in the united states , argentina defaulted on its sovereign debt in may 2001 . sometimes , debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps stretched over the longer run , thus giving a borrower country time to recapture the capacity to pay .
in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china , where a strain of pandemic will likely originate , a set of expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure is lacking . while ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , parts of the world where flu pandemics begin , the probability of success approaches nil . a response in turkey , where as many as 50 potential cases have emerged in the eastern part of the country , is instructive . this ‘ tipping point ’ is very cost-effective . but a strategy can be “ cost-effective ” only insofar as achievable .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvement in human history , and with it the rise of a large and growing middle class . that has made china an essential trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , in addition to placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . it is helping to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its beneficiaries have large budget deficits that push down the national savings of less than domestic investment ) . it remains the vital assembly center of the global supply chains for a number of manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , that allow the lower prices of the world ’s consumers . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a substantial portion of it in dollars , but also in other major currencies , owing also to its large trade surplus , in the last few decades
in the case of the balkans , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško nuclear facility in a ominous gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists have called for attacks to unleash radioactive content . for ukraine ’s government , the angst is real . history offers little guidance as to whether warring countries would avoid damaging nuclear sites . with the exception of the balkan conflict in the 1990 ’s , wars have not worked against or within countries with nuclear-armed reactors . even ukrainians born after 1986 to understand what a “ nobyl-type ” disaster brought on by fighting could look like .
china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing its rock-bottom tariffs on russian energy resources . during the last two years or so , saudi arabia made starkly apparent that it would not easily give up its market share , much to no one . it pursued a campaign to recover its former position not only in crude , but also in its petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price-level war , backed by a surge in manufacturing , aimed at pushing the country ’s poorer competitors . as soon as the doors to asia were open , however , russian firms have seized the opportunity to enter the downstream markets of india and indonesia – two countries that are critical to saudis ’ own strategy .
so which type of economy would offer that good life ? history suggests that it would be one of a entrepreneurial people too ( alert to unseen opportunities , and exercising their initiative to try new ones ) and innovative men ( imagining new things , develop new concepts into commercial products and methods , and marketing them to potential ) . indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourishing all refer to a experiential prize rather than money . attendees in such a good economy would range from the grassroots of society to the most advantaged . that ’s the kind of economy that i hope will develop .
for those confirming the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a well-prepared answer is to train people for improved jobs . but for now , technological advances are consuming better jobs . a wide range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and irreversible human may be the next casualties of technological change . as a recent article in the financial times points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity increases , higher education , and health care , technology is already reducing the demand for skilled labor . ( though may not be the case automation properly , the supermarket has just shifted some of the customer ’s shopkeeper work . )
last november , a roma couple killed in northeastern hungary were eventually murdered . in february , roma father and his five-year-old son were killed ahead of their homeland near budapest . back in august , gunmen stormed the home of an impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her dead and injured her 13-year-old daughter . the house was burned in our ground , a turkish man . in april , assassins of a roma factory worker as she walked into their job .
a more rational approach would embrace twenty-first-century realities . the information revolution has changed the world in ways that tariffs could not reverse . with america ’s workers already competing against us robots at home and against lower-wage workers abroad , distorting imports will only create more jobs for robots . to be sure , trump should be protecting individual workers rather than individual jobs . the processes of the twenty-first-century era of globalization are far too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrolled to rely on static measures like tariffs .
iran ’s results from its recent municipal election were degrading for ahmadinejad and his supporters . such elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany . but hitler ’s power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s in power over iran . he very likely means what he says about the jews and israel , but is another latter-day hitler , and is iran , the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran very much may .
this ensures that local and regional preferences are seen alongside those of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . the other principle is the subsidiarity that holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . the final principle is congruity , ensuring that decision-makers are liable for the outcomes of their decisions . that means that as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , a shared liability will be a pipe dream . but this requires a rich package of ideas , rather than a unified , approach .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on a extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected a political coalition of the two major powers : the super-rich and evangelical christians . the super-rich had one over-riding objective in joining bush ’s coalition : tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the wealthiest households . the bush team believed that they would eventually balance tax cuts for the rich with cuts in government spending ; but they never explained that to the public . evangelicals were brought in by what they called “ family values , ” ” by implying opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and by promises of active government support for religious activities , including direct payments by religious groups for social services that they provide locally and internationally . as these policies fail , global financial markets respond negatively , add uncertainty to the world economy , and there is little relief in sight because america is entering an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate .
looking ahead , some large eu countries are on the brink of recession . to bolster purchasing power and spur consumption growth , low - and middle-income households are essential . there will be public investment in infrastructure ( like the massive expansion of the european railroad network ) , as well as in climate protection and environmental technology . japan in the early 1990 ’s has waited too long to act and missed the right opportunity to enact countermeasures that japan still has not recovered from its long period of stagnation . of course , eu member states should establish the cement form that such an economic stabilization program takes for themselves .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to at least another $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for the fast-growing emerging low-carbon industries and is well positioned to play a critical role in renewables . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe . spending by households and businesses alone had projected at $ 4 trillion in 2015 to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting a 3.5 % annual outlay .
earlier this month , putin was re-inaugurated , or rather crowned – in spectacular fashion , with medvedev again assuming the role of pliant prime minister . a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a ex-kgb man . but ivanov is much taller than putin , whom had had only accomplished the rank of lieutenant colonel . an apparent potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov has gone beyond , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing environmental and transportation . despite his years in office , medvedev remains known more for his fancy ties and expensive watches than for his executive conduct .
cambridge – government programs to support retirees are at risk in every country , owing to rising life expectancy and a rising ratio of pensioners to taxpayer workers . the problem will become worse during the years ahead as adverse demographic trends add the fiscal burden of financing pensions and healthcare . though the options at which time will be different from choices facing other governments , the policies to avoid the american crisis are relevant to other countries that confront population aging . here ’s how the american system works : through legislation , a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to financing a retiree benefit . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” program produces crises when the fund gets exhausted .
newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless on reporting scandals , helping to prove brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is reasonably stable to withstand rampant criticism . lula remains popular with brazilians because his populist rhetoric displays real sympathy with the less affluent , and with foreign investors because he always tempered his radicalism to try to fill the country ’s economic realities . recently , he criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to usurp foreign assets for his failures in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the common sense that is needed from someone who governs . ” indeed , while the ensuing scandals shook the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market . one reason for this is that widespread corruption scandals have provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and
the two organization of american states an electoral observation missions that he himself invited and whose terms he accepted then refused to certify the result . the constitutional court that allowed morales to run perceived a legal legal legal succession ; timely elections were promised ; and the military did not assume power . true , morales resigned when the military told him to , and after agreeing to the protesters ’ demands for a new vote . but the existing constitutional provisions were subsequently followed . the bolivian military arrested none .
this is the type of free , democratic spirit that operates outside of the convention that elections decide the government . it is not always consistent or a rational one ; in fact , it is a decision that we make . and it moves very quickly in precipitating a crisis . it is fueled by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and they resent the point of mobilizing in the streets – any indication that a top-top-down clique is blocking the way .
at the time , countries were obliged to commit to only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , industrial , service workers ) . that left them free to build their own versions of national capitalism , as long as obeying a few simple international rules . the current crisis demonstrates how far we have come from that model . financial globalization , in particular , has played havoc with old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with its few safety valves , it spurred an explosive mix .
at the same time , it should boost america ’s bargaining position in world politics . so , even with no other interests in the middle east like israel or nuclear non-proliferation , the balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to ease america ’s military expenditures , which some experts estimate run to $ 50 billion a year , in order to protect oil routes in the region . power arises from asymmetries in interdependence . you and i may depend on one another , but if i depend on you less than you do on bargaining power , my bargaining power is increasing . for decades , both america and saudi arabia have had a balance of asymmetries , in which we depended on them as a swing producer of oil and depended on us to balance ultimate military security .
in each case , polish voters said that “ no deal at all ” outcomes that may be blamed , particularly in the uk , on national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for their domestic problems . indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism is a considerable reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . the lack of a historical vision among the current generation of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose needed to eu citizens feel that they are a part of the same community , regardless of its many national identity . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , has openly deplored the deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , raising questions about whether “ hungarians and poles ” want the same things as germany and france . on the national level , a lack of political will has led to a craven use of referenda , like french and dutch plebiscites on a treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ vote on an eu-ukraine association agreement , and the brexit referendum almost three months later .
florence – british politics was always something of an experimental laboratory on the industrialized world . back in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . nowadays , the equivalent of collapse has been of the “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which the party that styled itself as “ new labour ” embraced a powerful role for markets , particularly for largely deregulated financial markets . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that benefited everyone , with high gdp levels and impressive wage increases . that model was based politically on creating consensus and economically on keynesian demand management .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . palestine ’s religious landmarks are attracting rising number of religious tourists from around the world annually .
other countries ’ governments appear to have tried to distance themselves from the problem , fearing a contagion to which they know would likely spread . embassies have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; television news programs have shown hours of footprints on the streets . generally , mayors throughout europe have responded more moderately , feeling , and exhibited solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . as french cities have burned , other countries have been extremely severe in judging france . they know that their cities have also become vulnerable to urban violence in order to have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people .
and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain , in order to lift the vast number of people out of poverty – and thus avert a legitimacy crisis – places a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . all else being equal unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the amount of a commodity consumed to generate a unit of output , then falling dramatically – its demand for commodities will be greater this year than it was last year . to be sure , the usage intensity has fallen for some commodities , like gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , like aluminum and coal , that rose since 2000 , or as remains the case in copenhagen and oil , declines have slowed markedly or stalled at very high rates . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is projected to grow by no more than 2 % annually in real terms . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at rates exceeding global supply , prices will rise .
severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of governments ’ default on a $ 3.5 trillion bill for pharmaceutical imports . payment arrears on food-imports amounts to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a substantial shortage of staple goods . diagnosed with cancer earlier this year , he had to launch a social-media campaign to locate the drugs that his treatment requires . in the auto sector , insolvency exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to the collapse of transportation services due to shortages of spare parts . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy .
to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and its partners through a revolutionary process that does not pose a direct challenge to it . after all , turkey is already a functioning democracy ; indeed , it is one that has yet to be a viable one . will it have to get the bomb , too ? likewise , while egypt is in the midst of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it , too , is intent on regaining an even more recognizable and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and the region as a whole . a “ middle east empire ” ” in the middle east will no longer remain a relic .
the desire to restrict or even protect some forms of human activity from free markets may be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where free markets remain an unknowable animal . if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant on the idea that a us constitution is an aspirations for aspirations rather than a collection of enforceable legal rights . those controlled benefits had little to do with the righteousness supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything to rent-seeking and corruption . but , in a situation in which many fields of social life – such as education , health care , and social services – need quick and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its job – the sole plausible avenue for change . state-owned health-care companies , the state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not just insecure and inefficient ; they also contradict the notion of political reform .
so , too , is the work of indian fashion designers , now striding across the world ’s runways . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits like was that prime minister hafez al-assad ’s had been of dull superstar amitabh bachchan . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother , who takes a bus to dakar each month to watch a rubbish film – – she ca n’t understand an hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles , yet she can still pick up the “ movies spirit and understand the story , ” and people like her gaze at india with the stars in their eyes as a result . indian arts , classical music , and dance have the same impact . the movies of bauine , which produces its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer another example .
new delhi – barack obama , the sixth american president to visit india since he gained his independence , arrives at an effort moment , both for the united states and for india . for india , the issues on the agenda for obama ’s visit are enormous and complex , and resolving options is exceedingly limited . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous as they have ever been . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening an awkward gulf on both national-security and economy – the focus of his meetings with india ’s administration . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as sour as they are between america and china ; on the contrary , they are both thorny ; and lack of resolution makes them more intractable .
the combination of bad politics and per country ’s economics can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stresses and instability on other countries . furthermore , knowledge-intensive technology has a winner-take-all network effect whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classes , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . through social media , the resulting discontent now spreads faster than ever before , leading to destructive politics . indeed , according to the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( oils ) , about 65 million refugees occurred last year , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 . that may invite geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorates into a lose-lose scenario , like the one already apparent in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing .
that constitution marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provides a framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . but such a process is illegal under the 1978 spanish constitution . many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum in the fall of 2014 . and , as it explicitly specifies , it is “ founded in an indissoluble polity ” with sovereignty “ to the spanish people . ” in short , spain is one nation , indivisible .
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backwards . since the financial crisis of 2008 , the us has squandered far too much energy trying to return to the age of fast economic expansion . the faulty assumption that the post-crisis challenges of the world were only temporary has underpinned policies offering only lackluster recoveries while failing to address crucial problems like high unemployment and rising inequalities . the post-crisis era is over ; the “ post-post-crisis world ” is with us . it is time to embrace a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity , both within today ’s global economy and tomorrow .
obama has been confined to forging pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries . these were accentuated in a “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released , over the signatures of almost 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a us presidential shift in policy toward doha . indeed , it is notable that , while obama was the state of the union address in january 2010 at least alluded to doha , his address in january 2011 did not . obama , for his part , has been confined to forging pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries . america ’s president is captive to the country ’s labor unions , buying the false narrative that trade with poor countries boosts ranks with the american poor by driving down wages .
some people are even predicting an double-dip recession . for one thing , diversification away from dollar assets is the advice of the day . but this is no easy task , especially in the short run . if that happens , the odds of an actual american default would be far higher than they are today . indeed , these new worries are raising alarm bells within china .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise environmental and societal benefits beyond market rates . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions – a bold move that could transform capital markets . if this trend continues , with advancement in environmental or social goals enhancing investment ’s value , it will reinforce commitment to the kind of sustainability that is already gaining momentum among businesses worldwide . some 1,260 companies , managing an estimated $ 45 trillion in value added are signatories of the united nations , which recognizes environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and hence companies ’ long-term health and stability – as critical to their investors . last year , one out of every $ six of assets under the professional management of the united states , one out of every $ 6.6 trillion that were allocated toward some form of sustainable investment , particularly for public equities .
more heterogeneous perspectives could enrich the multilateral process and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . the perception today is that america has had a unipolar moment , europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers is rising , bringing its own singular worldviews into global affairs . in a sense , this might seem like a very good thing . but , in fact , this multipolar dynamic generates instability as well . in international politics , perceptions matter that sometimes more than in reality .
in britain and some european countries , animal-welfare has become politically salient , with pressure on parliamentary representatives mounted . some supermarket chains have even attempted to carry eggs from battery hens . the european union has established a scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on farms , with a committee banning battery cage alongside some other forms of close confinement for pigs and calves . a ban on battery cages within the eu was eventually adopted in 1999 , but to ensure that producers would have many time to phase out the facilities they invest , its implementation was delayed , until january 1 , 2012 . to its credit , the british egg industry embraced the situation , developing new and slightly less cruel methods to keep hens .
more broadly , instead of helping people solely when social risks materialize , public policy could encourage individuals in advance of their own work , by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that suits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . this may sound utopian to the point . but , at a time when each digital service is becoming more and better personalized , why should social policy remain confined to twentieth-century norms and solutions ? finally , identical accounts could serve as public-policy vehicles . early school-leavers , for example , could train themselves on later use in professional training .
it used to be that even mentioning corruption in several official circles was considered taboo . indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . a large number of government minister , bank officer , and ngo have experienced blunt criticism , just as had his effusive praise . yet corruption poses the single biggest barrier to growth and development in much of the world , particularly as it diverts resources from the poor . the world bank insisted on seeing corruption from some cancer , with the fight being made synonymous with fighting poverty .
china is not on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is a kind of revisionist power on the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . the formation of the g20 , for example , has been the rounds of improvisation intended to defer genuine financial-sector reform . but it is the status quo powers with respect to the un system , and steadfastly opposes the security council ’s enlargement . indeed , the modest measures implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have been confined to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations underpinned by peace and security – that remains the exclusive preserve of a handful of countries .
the evidence supports the view that subgroups ’ systematic exclusion on any arbitrary basis ( for example , ethnicity , race , or religion ) are particularly harmful in this respect . rising inequality of outcomes need not result in lower intergenerational mobility . it can lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor political choices . intergenerational mobility is a pivotal indicator of equality of opportunity . whether it depends heavily on whether the important instruments that promote equality of opportunity , principally education and health-care provision are universally accessible .
the proliferation of disinformation technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into a large pool of financing , not to mention contacts and expertise , from small-scale investors . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms now exist , several specifically target clean technologies . last may , the eureeca.com took crowdfunding concepts further than ever before , creating the first genuinely global crowd-investing marketplace that offered equity in funded companies . other increasingly prominent trends , such as collaborative consumption , pay per use , and shared and leasing models , could offer a similarly powerful impetus to these efforts . if used wisely , such platforms might seize the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy .
in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , proclaimed its independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , the refugees poured across the frontier into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that inevitably gave rise to cholera outbreaks . the standard of care at the time was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips implied that the rehydration solution could not be administered widely . as many people lay dying , a pioneering physician named dilip mahalanabis assumed a chance in an agonizing situation . bangladesh knows wartime cholera all too well .
madrid – the april 22 , 2017 , international earth day marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most significant step forward for the global fight against climate change . but its first anniversary has grown stronger by us president donald trump ’s own energy policies . in the 2016 brexit hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . indeed , the primary objective of the paris accord is to prevent the rapid rise of the world ’s temperatures from rising to more than 2º c above the pre-industrial level by 2100 .
even more succinctly could not fully today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability to the world as a whole and to its future be the logical consequence of a modern concept of the world as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws , formulated for god-knows – just what purpose is , a concept that does not question or seek a deeper meaning in existence and renounces any and renounces any and all metaphysics ? is there any sense in trying to spin the human mind to the skies when such a turn would merely aggravate conflict on earth among adherents of our various deities ? could humanity ’s perception solely within the boundaries of what lies at its pattern of vision , and is incapable of remembering also what lies beyond , not to mention the loss of a metaphysical certitude , of the loss of god ? but how to restore in the human mind a shared attitude toward what stands out in the us when people across the globe have another image that is above , if people everywhere feel the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours are the first atheistic civilization of the arab history and first civilization that embraces the entire planet ) coincides profoundly , i believe , with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibility collectively through a crisis of global responsibilities .
those are the decisions that drivethe transformation the world needs . at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition that , although underway , lags or has stalled in many parts of the world . it has cast down on earth ’s gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : tell us when you phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation from income to pollution . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and major end users is critical , because it extends affordable and reliable clean-energy services to all who need them . there also needs a major reform of how the transition is financed .
new haven – central bankers around the world were unable to see the current financial crisis coming even before their early beginnings in 2007 . and yet , while those central banks have failed the us in the aftermath of the crisis , they should still be playing the lead role in preventing another crisis from recurring . from macro-prudential regulators ( government officials who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) , from a peculiar point of view , central bankers are the logical people to fill that role . that ’s the outcome , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam lake group [ ll:///squamlakegroup.org/] , a think tank of the 15 academic financial economists to which i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the us financial system . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that of the 47 central banks found publishing the financial stability accounts ( fsrs ) , practically all ” had delivered a “ positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system ” in their best recent paper .
sadly , in making that choice , the us president seems determined to shift away from the classic american vision engraved on the pedestal of the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s ’s poem that begins , “ giving me your weary , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” and even after the repeal was announced , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with heart and compassion . ” that credo has benefited tens of millions of newcomers and has reinvigorated america . yet , apparently convinced that daca recipients have removed jobs from their citizens , concluded that equal hearts and sympathy are needed “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ” while vowing during the us presidential campaign to end daca , trump has also acknowledged the moral case for going to sustain it , saying that it will face a “ very tough ” choice .
they want concessions on oil and mining concessions to be allocated efficiently and to maximize government revenues . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors all require adequate resources to win their tough battles . trying to seize these valuable tasks , while paying below-market wages , is penny wise but the pound folly . amlo ’s decision to lower public employees ’ wages has already led many high-paid officials to seek jobs elsewhere . those in charge of early retirement take this , rather than waiting to see amlo ’s cut .
and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ° celsius ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) over pre-industrial levels – far above the 2 degrees that climate scientists have identified as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . yet , to accelerate the energy-related pace of energy-related innovations , creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups must be established in three major areas . indeed , clearly , the third industrial revolution needs support now . moreover , global co2 emissions have reached a record high in 2012 . the first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive down the cost of renewables at least the result of fossil-fuel energy in ten years .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , the earth hour is hard to beat . first organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 from a local chapter of the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates exploded in recent years , to the point that there is barely a corner of the earth that the campaign had touched . at the stroke of 8:30 sab30 p.m. on a total of march 27 , almost a billion or so people in over 120 countries exhibited a desire to do something about global warming by switching off their lights for one hour . in a show of formal solidarity , the lights also walked away at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from an opera house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york city empire building , london , eiffel tower , and skylines both of hong kong and las vegas . what else might not be ; on the contrary , earth hour is undoubtedly one of successful policy publicity stunts ever dreamed up .
but britain has joined the european community , and not only the free trade area that cameron now apparently wants . in essence , the british point has been that a freed confederation of nation-states that cooperate on trade is as deeply european as the uk needs . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas has been accepted only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others had done just that . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british policy has never been diminished , and has been apparent in cameron ’s own speech . indeed , in his speech , it was impossible for cameron to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice .
estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low - – to middle-income countries representing 82 % of the world ’s population . to be sure , the us coal industry has helped billions of people escape extreme poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned almost 700 % growth in per capita income since 1990 . yet human health is at a higher risk in those countries that burn more coal . research for the global commission on the us economy and climate calculated last year ’s that particulate matter alone led to 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s highest-coal-consuming economy – in 2010 . coal-fired power is also the dominant source of carbon dioxide , a major climate-responsible greenhouse gas that causes about 150,000 premature deaths annually and threatens pervasive risks this century and far beyond .
yet sometimes this yearning appears overwhelming in “ post-modern democracies ” everywhere . in politics , this may prove dangerous , for it encourages basing rulings regardless of how weighty any popular opinion momentarily prevails . a call for more referenda both reflects and fuels this trend . with referenda , we are left for the most part a snapshot . indeed , democratic democracy nowadays embraced a pop culture of rapidly passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten in tomorrow , with there always more waiting in the wings .
unless i know the person ’s name , i might not even know what a company it is about to do . she could , perhaps , say “ “ “ message ” a message for us president barack obama if she shares an open letter sharing an open letter , but then a sight of that vision . the best topic line , says what the message is about and signals a desired response : “ invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” sadly , i get lots of messages headlined , “ update ” to be read . or , “ “ investment proposal ” for your consideration , ” or “ serve as a benchmark ? ”
but it is far from clear that sonia gandhi , the president of india ’s national congress , and that of the country ’s most influential politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda . economists around the world have taken note of raghuram rajan ’s advent as chief economist at the finance ministry . rajan is a superstar researcher , a brilliant public-policy writer , and a former managing economist for the imf . and yet the changes currently afoot might merely turn things around . india ’s octogenarian , manmohan singh , has recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum .
we must establish new ground rules for political discourse . separation powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a strong commitment to pursuing truth also requires . rather than manipulate political will , politicians will respect rather than manipulate , reality only when public cares about truth and punishes politicians when they catch them into deliberating on deception . we must abandon popper ’s tacit assumption that belief in political discourse seeks a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . these may not be identi­cal to a scientific way , but they should be akin in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as set on which political views are judged .
the explanations range from borderline anthropological racist : indians do not have their genes , buildings , stamina , climate , whatever . there are sound and infrastructural explanations : the lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , facilities , financial resources . but those rationales n’t will be doing : the other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in the medals . why do indian athletes perform so badly ? the us is a developing country , it is said ; after all , it is not only your eyes in opposition to its , your legs against hers , but what can be done against their trainer , its running shoe , its ergodynamic costume , their titanium running .
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for a new america century ( bush ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . and , after winning his presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq one of his top two security priorities . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that iraq had weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of compelling evidence . then , in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report , stating that “ we do not know with any degree of precision how much we do not know ” about the “ status of wmd ” programs in iraq . no coincidentally , bush ’s administration had included ten of the pearl harbor founding statements of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as defense secretary .
the greatest single difference from 2009 to 1979 was shaped by the revolution itself . r evolutions gave the birth of a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . iranian leadership formed after a revolution consisted of quite moderate ruling stratum and a much broader supporting group , which had been given executive orders and political mobilization . indeed , in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the realignment of that political class has drastically changed . the clerical elite has gradually lost power to military-security groups , from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad has emerged .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but we should not exaggerate the significance of that point . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not exactly all-out war .
finally , we need fact-based solutions . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . research shows that many girls around the world , and especially those in the global south , are simply not prepared for menarche ; education can support . when programs are developed alongside rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda finds that adolescent girls often do not lose school because they lack access to clean-sanitary products .
economists have long understood that , when a credible lender of last resort , it is the banks that are vulnerable to a self-fulfilling confidence crisis . that a lender could be monetary or fiscal ; and , in greece , both kinds are in doubts . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf disravels , the european central bank no longer accepts greek bonds as collateral . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . under these circumstances , it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to withdraw their funds off greek banks .
in the short run , however , falling countries often assume greater risks and become more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . as a result , this has created the political dilemma of the political process . president vladimir putin ’s intervention in neighboring countries and the middle east , as well as his cyber attacks on america and others , though his goal is to make russia look great again , merely worsening the country ’s long-term prospects . on one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order over the use of force by states to seize territory from their own neighbors . with russia almost totally dependent on revenues from its own energy resources , putin presents a “ one crop economy ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as failed states and economies . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all of the parties involved and mostly with europe . it can ultimately end only with greece ’s renewed bailout , or with europe a plunge into disaster . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as failed states and economies .
trump ’s presidency provides china with new opportunities to cement its role as an investment provider and every means of infrastructure and assistance to host countries that are eager to develop . indeed , it has given china ’s rise a significant new orbit for many countries worldwide , especially developing and emerging economies . and , indeed , it is china ’s exceptional diplomatic skill throughout the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) that has made it an alternative “ hegemonic ” force , one that comes without the western powers of colonial depredations or moralizing about democracy and human rights . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are poised to fill the vacuum as they do . his unilateralist approach is probably compelling america to play catch-up with a china left nearly unhinged in its sustained effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries views as vital , economically , and politically – to its own strategic interests .
austin – living in a town turns you into a cannibal . urbanites become the kind of people ready to make sacrifices one another to satisfy their appetites : cannibals . that , by the very least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who viewed cities a surmised in terms of human corruption . urbanization denounces people to rural sorrow 's suffering , and , as townshend crowd together , their compassion capacity toward others atrophies . rousseau was so convinced of the malign urbanization effects that it “ would prefer to see men grazing on their meadow grass , not depleted one another in cities .
if not , could any other country fill that role , even partly ? looking ahead to the 2021-2030 trend , annual gdp growth of 8 % ( versus no other recent decade ’s 10 % rate ) , together with a sharp rise in consumption to 50 % of gdp , would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion annually by 2030 . in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of america in the us in the dollar . that question at the start of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy unless this scenario plays out . if apple ’s recent guidance points to a across-the-board , indefinite reduction in chinese consumption , will america ’s consumers serve as the sole engine of the global economy for the next decade ?
at least four “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , with three plague china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( alongside europe and many other major emerging-market economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term bank lending . nor can policymakers afford to ignore a fourth misaligned , between ultra-low nominal interest rates and relatively higher risk-adjusted returns on equity ( roe ) for investors , which has added to speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequalities . yet , unlike many emerging economies , china does not struggle with currency mismatches , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which make it a net lender to the rest of the world . but china has not avoided a third mismatch , between its debt and capital : its loan ratio has doubled over the past decade , from around 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed longer-term capital and equity markets .
with a target of 20 gw of solar generating capacity by 2020 , investment in india could grow rapidly . reaffirming its commitment to the rapid decarbonization of its energy system , together with creative policies to support it , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory . in recent decades , europe has been the engine of energy modernization . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and safety advantages of renewables . the events of the last 15 months , beginning in deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , were followed by violence in north africa and the tragedy in japan , confront a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional sources of power and the promise and progress of clean-energy markets .
human ingenuity seems to know no bounds when it comes to dreaming protectionist barriers . for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and migrant tosanitary standards or as arguments for local content requirements , infant industries , intellectual-property protections , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . in october 1982 , overcast the french government ’s requiring that all japanese join the country through poitiers , a city hundreds of miles , from the nearest significant shipping port . that non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 . even in the absence of tariffs and quotas , trade can be hindered by subsidies , taxation , anti-dumping legislation limits on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc – to defeat populism will need to grips with a underlying reality : bad economic policies no longer stem the rise of a government that is losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists might actually reinforce their odds that they will be reelected by making wilder and more impossible promises – and causing even more economic harm . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not weigh on war .
two other destabilizing developments emerged during the last quarter of the twentieth century : a strong incentive to use debt to prop up demand , and a shift to financing public debt through market-based prices , under the guise of fighting inflation . the financial sector has since made every effort to design instruments protecting against price fluctuations , turning private-sector debt into tradable financial securities , and gaining access to speculative markets . these trends boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system with the liquidity that was generated by private-sector banking activity , unconnected to transactions in the real economy . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity had amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp . however , such efforts tended to be conducive to fraud and delinquency , and were spurred by the wave of new financial crises – that arose in europe in 1992 in asia in 1997 and argentina in 1998 , as well as in recessions in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s .
similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-benefit review program that identified 40 major projects for prioritizing , reformed overall planning processes , and then created a cabinet grid to ensure faster project delivery , thereby reducing infrastructure spending by up to 15 % . and chile ’s national public investment system evaluates every proposed public initiative that uses standard form , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . additional savings opportunities – to apportion $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . there is massive scope for accelerating property approvals and land-acquisition programs , structure contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and improve coordination with contractors . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed the approval times , by as much as 11 % in just a year .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with players like employers , industries , and workers ) ; biology ; sps , space flight ; and many more ; and comprising representations , like graphs , timelines , and tables , of ways that link them . most things do not really exist in isolation ; we could just as quickly be . and that means better , more meaningful responses as we search for it . they have complex relationships with ai , and , by representing that information using verbs , for example , “ the company that google has acquired ” vs. “ corporate that google competes with ” has been able to represent the world more accurately . most things do n’t really exist in isolation ; we need to do this .
new york – the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to hold a certain share of female workers , up from around 60 % . that proposed mandate has now been born of frustrations . last year , european commission vice president viviane reding issued a call for voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign up for a gender balance objective of a 40 % female board member ’s membership . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit with its own “ outward-ready ” female list .
cambridge – at the dawn of class every autumn , i tease my students with the following question : is it better to be a poor country , or a wealthy one in a poor country ? that question typically invites a considerable , inconclusive debate . but we might devise a more structured , limited version of a question for which there is a definitive answer . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
alternatively , low interest rates could push it ( or its pension fund ) to purchase riskier long-maturity bonds . given the appalling returns on saving since 2007 , the prospect of continued low interest rates could force her to float even more money aside . given that such bonds are already becoming more aggressively priced , such a move could thus set her off for a drop in when interest rates eventually rise . indeed , america might well find itself in the process of adding to the pension crisis to the saving-short us unemployment problem . she saved as she pleases enough money to be able to grow .
certainly , the zambians ’ achievement can not compete with the intervention in libya or the drama of the arab spring . and yet , what has happened in zambia relates to those developments , and thus relevant everywhere . after all , the smooth transitions of power are not taken for granted . what made zambia ’s election so significant is that the challenger won . indeed , he defeated an incumbent who genuinely wanted to keep his job done , and who might reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of another african leader defeated in popular voting by simply refusing to receive the result .
as it stands , syria is russia ’s sole client state within the middle east . its use of hard power won the kurdish civil war for president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , an indication of how a strategic deployment of inured military force – witness the utter destruction of aleppo – can be a game-changer . but , since then , russia has become ensnared in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey and kurds , and israel and iran . while a policy of neutrality has enabled russia to maintain a dialogue with different parties , it will do nothing to forge a new regional order . to be sure , russia ’s diplomatic weakness has been starkly apparent in syria .
with the external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed again . investors were willing to purchase even 100 year ’s bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults in the last two centuries . investor enthusiasm and a domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benign . but , when the inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf then had to foot the external financing gap with a stunning $ 50 billion loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . but , again , the external-financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon ; argentinian voters were soon starting to bristle at supporting reforms that the imf requires .
this could take the airlift of incipient assets bubbles , which could be forming and ease pressures on institutional investors struggling to find the yield that they need to meet their insurance and retirement liabilities . moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . proponents of helicopter money prefer to loathsome citizens with central bank funds or to crediting national treasuries for funding infrastructure and other policymaking generating activities , rightly argue that it has the policy benefit of putting money directly at the mercy of those who spend it . indeed , inducing demand might give central banks the opening they need to shift interest rates back toward historic norms . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured fashion , heading off the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap .
that followed two visits , he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and a donor conference that he sponsored in april that sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban assumed an active role in the gaza crisis . he regular defense of palestinians ’ rights to statehood , but also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks on southern israel . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded un peacekeeping and requested that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . he also visited the un central gaza compound to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing .
boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by the shocks that are occurring in advanced economies , but they are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , while volatility in capital flows has risen globally , it is higher among emerging-market economies than in the advanced economies . moreover , advanced economies ’ spillover effects extend beyond financial shocks . indeed , emerging economies also suffer from the effects on advanced countries ’ external imbalances – especially the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus . for the past couple of years , the deficit-to-gdp economies of the eurozone ’s periphery , as well as , more recently , italy , have implemented massive external adjustment , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large surpluses .
first , egypt ’s ill-rivaled shiite dominance , and the unlikelihood of a split within its leadership , makes any widespread violence untenable , especially given that the egyptian state ’s fight against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s overwhelmingly weakened jihadist groups ’ operational assets across the country . second , the mighty force of political islam may now be conducted with passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt for part of domestic politics through organized structures and processes . in a country with more than 45 million people under the age of 35 , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a prolonged impasse . finally , despite significant demographic and economic transformations in egypt over the past four decades , egyptian society still maintains its agrarian character , which favors conciliation and compromise . but , even in an inclusive political transition , either in the short and medium run , egyptians will need to answer the vexing question that they have failed over six decades to confront : what is egypt ?
a factor contributing to their demise was the shift in thinking that had transformed the conflict between east and west , away from one that emphasized eu economic systems . but the past decade was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and , during the current decade , appeared to turn against the causes of the rights . powerful states like china and russia not to limit themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; they also promote those in other countries that are engaged in similar practices . the same is true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela . south africa ’s predominantly peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy of the early 1990 ’s provided a further advance in favor of rights .
now , supply chains may hold as many important international linkages as domestic , and a substantial portion of internal demand is being met by products partly or wholly produced abroad . as technological innovations further reduce entry barriers on both manufacturers and consumers , proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , amplifying what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-border relationships and dependencies . this is one reason why the current confrontation between america and china has stoked fears of severe damage , particularly when it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a wider “ trade war . ” for the longer-term health of both individual participants and the overall system , such relationships must function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that views any credible alternative to health . if not , they risk resulting from less high levels of growth and welfare .
once it is out of the cold , may will have to decide with which the economic bloc to align itself , and then accept that the bloc ’s rules . this is not to say that sovereignty or satrapy is not a question of sovereignty , or of the satrapy . it is simply a question of whether the us would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual-property and technology transfers over those of the west , or of europe ’s food and agricultural standards over those of america . if britain wants to do business with others , it would have to agree to common rules . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , it finds itself merely grief and isolating itself .
in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among the major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base are being discussed . the gamble has been that a solid , durable recovery would allow banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts . in europe , potential structural reforms focus on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . but sluggish growth implies less tax revenues and more entitlement payments to cushion hardship , placing pressure on government budgets . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one major cause of sluggish economic recovery .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would support an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . but thadden himself avoided making a direct answer , suggesting that he would not fight alongside his own sister . nonetheless , dahrendorf was adamant that the npd ’s fortunes should be decided by voters rather than by courts declaring that the communist party was illegal . kamaul has reiterated this idea in passionate declarations ( which , no doubt , had agreed on in advance ) of excluding west germany ’s communists from the debate . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister had been a member of the opposition .
while financing for public infrastructure has returned to levels of 2008 , little has been funneled to new projects . liquidity remains constrained in the run-up to the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy comprising a non-creditworthy regulatory regime . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure – investment that is deemed relatively safe , because it entails little or no construction risk , and has shown a potential to generate stable cash revenues . to overcome investment barriers , we propose creating an asset class that we call “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . that asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it over the next 15 years or longer .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . lukashenko was forced by the removal of russia ’s oil-price subsidies in 2009 to beg , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy from collapsing . he had tricked the international monetary fund into extending its $ 3.4 billion loan , promising freer elections in december 2010 only to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown in the face of adverse electoral outcomes and the mounting protests of his regime . but , following the recent 64 % stock-market devaluation , the clock appears to be running out on its protracted misrule . now russia has taken a tougher line , demanding heavy prices for its loans , which are by any standards , insufficient to rescue the regime .
in its current fight with google , for example , china ’s government appears to believe that its technologists can grant the means to maintain the age-old thought control . but , fortunately , for anyone with a persistence and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like a morass . indeed , it is becoming increasingly clear that china has opened its economy solely to keep the country ’s super-mighty rulers in power rather than respect and enhance the livelihoods of ordinary chinese . the great advances of china ’s economy over the last 30 years are something all the chinese celebrate . but liu ’s jailing also illustrates in starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights flows to the rest of the world alongside its masses of chinese goods .
in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ reinforcing ” the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . such views do not emerge from thin air ; indeed , those views can be found . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice president for economic policy , famously pointed out that upcoming reforms would be implemented with startling speed . liu , a master tactician , appears to be underscoring the link between leadership power and the pace of reform . given such mounting concerns , the implementation risks are now being presented differently .
a similar picture , albeit on a smaller scale , is occurring in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing and most fragile minority . a broad socioeconomic disparity exists between all of europe ’s population and the roma , or “ gypsies ” – many of whom live in extreme poverty – . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves the urgent attention of government leaders as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . left unchanged , this deplorable poverty threatens to turn into a permanent drag on european prosperity into a tragedy for roma and non-roma .
on the political front , the key lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security for safety . within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own administration has the power to take on internal-security matters . but where its actions are inadequate is the right and responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene . it need not be this way ; it must not . to help find a solution , we have conducted pest ( political , economic , cultural , and technological ) analysis in hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects .
on average , the european parliament elections are less than four months away . and this could mark the beginning of a slow-motion process of european disintegration . pro-european forces need a campaign of coordinated efforts to counteract the cyclical slowdown , and – most important – for a cohesive and aggressive policy to address europe ’s longer-term structural problems . specifically , it needs a program of vision on research and development , educational attainment , and social inclusion , which could appeal to large segments of the population across member countries . should they fail , the prospect of a parliament dominated by populist forces becomes a reality .
when asked whether america was ready to become the world ’s second-largest economy , it had become reticent . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who had put them in office . their response was understandable : even entertaining the possibility of an america becoming one ’s population of two outsized ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician . intellectuals , by contrast , have a special obligation to think the unthinkable and speak the unspeakable . they are said to contemplate any possibility , even disagreeable ones , and prepare the population for prospective developments .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technology erodes entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , has been hailed as its fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with the focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital has been vitally important to its economy , and mexico is no exception .
and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , whereas unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . in reality , italy ’s tax system is skewed in the favor of savers . payroll-tax cuts , for example , which would have enabled small corporate owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , fueling job creation and economic growth , might have demanded a reduction in rents . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains from governments ’ government bonds , while the entrepreneurial people risk being allowed to launch new businesses must pay roughly 50 % of their start-up cost in taxes . likewise , italy ’s real-estate tax accounts for about 2 % of its total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % in the us , and the government plans to slash it further .
and though thousands – perhaps tens of thousands – of polish protesters gathered ahead of the supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million of them voted for pis in the 2015 general election . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely be unable to operate at the time . current polls indicate that pis ’s favorability has climbed to around 40 % , more than twice that of the previous ruling party , a religion-based platform . this suggests that while poles might disagree with the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk a lot for a free judiciary , or for liberal-democratic principles generally . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that “ the european commission will not break poland ’s ” will regarding the completion of whatever reforms we make , as long as we do not reform the polish judiciary ; other reforms will have little sense , because sooner or later they negated , withdrawing the courts that we are now .
tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” ” ” ” and so forth , as if the three musketeers were interviewed by an oral historian . there is also some routine praise for the two presidents they had worked with , between george w. bush and barack obama , and a reprise of their frustrations with people who did not see the world through its way , and obstructed their solutions , such as sheila peel , the us federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and the various pesky congressional members . its main interest lies not so much in negotiating chapters that cover the same ground as their past books , as in their policy recommendations for the future . in particular , three proposals should put policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think tough on each other . it is fanciful that they could build a consensus on a quite radical program .
likewise , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think trump is an arrogant state , and only 50 % still believe that the us and the uk have a special relationship now that he is in office . sentiment toward trump is set to become even more unfavorable in western europe . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has been postponed indefinitely . in germany , only 6 % of survey respondents feel that he is qualified to hold his current offices , and 91 % regard him as arrogant . the countries with which trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % perceive the us favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , which are led by populist right-wing governments .
in sixteenth-century england control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from free trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british powers rested on its industrial primacy and its naval power . in his inaugural address in 2009 , us president barack obama stated that “ us power grows through its imprudent use ; our safety emanates from the justness of our cause ; the force of our example ; the tempering qualities of humility and restraint ; and ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton stated that “ america alone can not resolve the most pressing problems on our own ; the world can not resolve them without america . today , it is far from clear how measured the balance of power is , much less how to develop successful strategies of survival . the conventional wisdom always held that a state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age might be the state ( or non-state ) with the best story that wins .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy when , evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , saying that “ france will be glad insofar as someone might compel a new president to reform . ” the truth is , of course , that authoritarian systems – whatever their immediate successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . a public consensus supporting difficult reform in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters are amenable to understanding and accepting tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative . the challenge for democracies , therefore , is to develop mechanisms that allow them to establish policies that are sustainable in the long run , while safeguarding the democratic process itself . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiency – the problems with which china now has wrestling .
he turned to nebraska ’s university , where he had received his undergraduate degrees and acquired hybrid maize and other improved seeds that the university had developing . he then tracked the inputs and weather patterns that had seldom been done when it time . my father realized that it could n’t go it alone , requiring better access to financing . he had to stay in nebraska , and was helping my grandfather to save the family farm from the banks that had already repossessed one-third of the land . the single most important change that my father made was in thinking : coming to think of farm animals not as subsistence operations , but as family business .
it also means applying strict carbon emission limits to new passenger cars , public transportation , and commercial sea and aviation . second , europe must take the lead in responsible use of resources and becoming a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , 8 billion tons of materials are processed into energy , or annually in the eu . just $ 0.6 billion of tons , a mere 7.5 % , originate from the recycling . and it means making europe together by our auto industry , our first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 .
but the payoff , for both the us and the liberal world order that it created , would be significant . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into america ’s foreign-policy debates , including by preparing public discourse . from my perspective as the group ’s sole chair , an overarching message should be that america must conceive of itself not as “ the indispensable power of all , ” as it now does , but as “ the indispensable partner . ” this is not simply a matter of semantics ; pursuing such a change will require that america re-conceive its role in the world . the key to success will be america ’s capacity to retain the best – and to abandon the worst – of which most american notions : exceptionalism .
xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise was simply a “ restoration ” of achievement the country enjoyed before nineteenth-century western-style intrusions disrupted its harmonious system . but the beleaguered angus maddison ’s estimates of historic gdp per capita imply that china ’s economic “ retardation ” began well before its confrontation with the west . outsiders had misinterpreted that system – “ built on a clearly accepted scheme , ” ” ” as xiang describes it , with its “ blood-stained legitimacy at the very top ” , and the scholar gentry to administer matters of the state ” – as a recipe for economic stagnation . between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income had barely migrated from the top 600 , while the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) , and even spain had doubled . so china ’s political stability , and its relative absence from violence , were thus achieved at the expense of economic dynamism , rather than in harmony with it .
the west would do well to cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex region . morocco is well positioned to foster security and development throughout northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , open economies , and balanced international relations are becoming increasingly aligned against those of both the us and europe . this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali but also in other conflict zones , like one in jordan serving syrian refugees . moreover , morocco is america ’s loyal , longstanding american ally .
a majority of members of my fellow male faculty are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven types ; rather , in their scientific careers , they displays two types of typically male conduct . the first creates the compulsion to be first to place entirely trivial facts in science . the topic of female faculty , particularly in the basic sciences , is far more complicated . so , as i grow older , i can no longer be certain why that is so important ; but our very male members also seem to think that it is . indeed , i suspect that here the problem reflects a fundamental disparity between how a person or a person ’s approach to science as a microcosm of life .
this , together with the prominence of an advisory council ( comprising a well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , a french political islam expert gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , a brookings institution fellow ) , and the sensitivity of minority rights generally , has combined to give the project national , regional , and international observation . so far , syria ’s authorities have not responded to the tharwa project . but a project appears to represent a type of activity that could help to produce a vision for change . it is probably still too early in a game for the end . some in the syrian government might take note .
that growth reflected the flawed pre-crisis economic model that relied on indifference to where growth emerged , how sustainable was , and to benefit those who benefited from it . now , if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , it must start asking hard questions about the right issues . any new bilateral deal , each chapter in globalization , should measure out against new criteria . how sustainable , and how evenly spread , will the macroeconomic benefits ? will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities to those who become economically displaced ?
cambridge – in the euphoric moment of the collapse of the soviet union , few would have guessed that ukraine – a industrialized country with an educated labor force and vast natural resources – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , had managed to triple its per capita gdp ( at purchasing power parity ) over the next three decades . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does n’t all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
obviously , these countries may be resisting upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves like they did before the global financial crisis . to be sure , these countries may be resisting upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves like the one that occurred before the global financial crisis . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks undertake this bizarre financial intermediation , which represents a major cost in the us , because inflows of private money account for a larger share of their reserves ? here currency appreciation already occurs , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 , and in some cases might already be said to be excessive ( in brazil , for example ) . here , then , consider other large emerging markets .
credit expansion now has to be followed when a period of contraction , because some of the new credit instruments and practices are unsound and unsustainable . that has made the crisis more severe than any since the end of world war ii . the asset-backed commercial paper market originated on one side of the financial system , and the special investment vehicles set by banks to weed out mortgages from their balance sheets could no longer get outside funding . the final bust came when interbank lending , at the heart of the financial system , was disrupted , because banks had to husband their sources and could n’t trust their counterparties . central banks were obliged to inject an unprecedented amount of money and extend credit on an abnormally wide range of institutions than ever before .
trump ’s ’s main problem is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear agreement – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew the united states , have remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the agreement , and doing whatever it may be able to compel iran ’s leaders to continue adhering to it . the european signatories have established a special mechanism for facilitating trade and doing business with iran at the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china have expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking their first point in the western alliance ’s history that america ’s european allies have joined forces with its own rivals . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
an effective solution to the problem exists : solar-power technology . an african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels – the money they could spend on education , health , and productive investment . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . to compare , the average american pays about 15 cents for every dollar spent . to be sure , the firms providing those panels would also benefit substantially from tapping this large new market .
this process has unfold for many centuries , but it accelerated in recent decades , as the select few acquired ever-larger share of total wealth and growing political influence . today , just 100 us corporations produce 71 % of all greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % are responsible for roughly 50 % of all ghg emissions , while the world ’s poorest 50 % produce 10 % of their emissions . unwilling to confront those who portray our planet , political leaders have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon from the atmosphere . even the ipcc has incorporated assumptions about such technology into many of its modeled pathways for keeping global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
and if growth decelerates , owing to the higher costs of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . for its part , foreign central banks can do likewise ; for every dollar spent , they can do nothing . multiply $ 0.15 by $ 0.10 ( the fed 's hypothesized tariff rate ) and you get 1.5 % . allow for some substitute away from more expensive imported goods , the figure drops less than 1 % . in the us , us imports account for 15 % of america 's gdp .
its ability to revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence in public is one reason why the government may prefer this course to arresting and seeking terrorism suspects . and yet simply revoking citizenship does not solve the problem of leaving at large a suspected terrorist , who might then conduct an assault elsewhere , unless , as with sakr , it is killed . the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance of individual rights , including the right of citizenship and the public good . suppose that the government gets it right 19 times off from $ 20 , when it relies on suspicion of interference with terrorist activity to revoke people ’s citizenship . had this been the case with those of decision making by the uk government in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen was made stateless .
china and india , in particular , should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . private-sector firms will compete intensively to reduce still further the cost of a renewable-energy system , including coal-burning generation , energy storage , and downstream use , such as electric vehicles , electric heating , and cooking stoves , and a new hydrogen economy . government and entrepreneurial combined should fund new research and development in order to drive costs at an even lower cost . as the old fossil-fuel plants age and shut down , clean-energy generation should be replaced by renewable-energy generation , via renewable-energy auctions . governments should set emissions limits , and the private sector should compete to deliver cheap solutions .
in the alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta might end up proving too unwieldy to be workable . what the mikta countries share is rapid economic growth and growing influence outside of their own borders . many of their challenges and dovetail ambitions with those of web sites ( the brics , minus russia ) . the bottom line , though important , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will be a catalyst for fresh thinking about global challenges . they have their own challenges , but they are also models for economic dynamism and innovation with substantial stakes in how post-wwii global institutions and rules should be reshaped .
too little was done to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the nature of the fiscal bundle , increased transfer and spending added more to the national debt as a share of gdp . much of the “ stimulus ” simply financed increased spending by state governments , which would have paid off in other ways . while the fed saw how weakness the upturn remained , it launched a “ “ “ “ unconventional ” strategy , ” combining massive purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep short-term federal funds rates extremely low for an extended period . the goal was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to equities and other assets , with the resulting increase in their prices pushing up households ’ wealth and consumer spending .
public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on the failure of europe ’s supporters to explain the distinction between that unchallenged policy and full euro participation . in denmark , my own country of economic readiness is not an issue . despite different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have so far had that in common : they prefer to view europe as cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone toward closer integration . as a result , denmark might be the last to the vote , but not necessarily to unite . indeed , danish voters have already seen most of the benefit of euro membership , owing first to the danish krone disney link first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only impediment to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea might argue that north korea must move first toward denuclearization , before offering any kind of economic aid . but there is no reason why international efforts at securing north korean denuclearization must out policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . instead , it may be impossible to win north korea ’s assent to denuclearization amid a lack of far-reaching domestic change . the us need not assume that these goals can not be pursued in the long run .
the mutual distrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably damage both the soul of the union and of the entire european project . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor the eu seem capable of addressing . rather than fostering pan-european solidarity , economic hardship led to a massive distribution conflict . what once was a relationship among equals has given way to a face-off among borrowers and lenders . and nobody should doubt that france and its voters mean what they say .
ironically , the larger the market , the greater its cost advantage . lost in an era of “ a new economy ” dominated by the producers ’ economies of scale and consumer economies of scope , a firm that sets the lead in terms of market share gains has a near-overwhelming advantage . versions of it with the largest market share becomes the norm ; they are the easiest to figure out how to use , the simplest to find support , and the one that works best with other goods ( which are obviously designed to work best with him ) . unless its competitors take extraordinary , extraordinarily costly steps -- such as that taken by microsoft against netscape , its opponent in the online browser market , by pouring a fortune into creating his online explorer and then distributing it for a free -- the first firm to establish a dominant market position will reap high returns as long as its industry lasts . in addition , economy-wide information goods also have a higher value for consumers .
that is why its member states must take the lead in designing solutions . for one thing , the most urgent priority is to create safe and legal pathways to reach europe . but the eu should be more systematically generous to determine how many to admit and implement organized ways to facilitate its entry . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by enabling it to vet applicants fully ) . this does not imply that every vulnerable migrant must be accepted .
cambridge – over the past few years , american policy and policy institutions have become more deeply polarized than the distribution of opinion in the american public would suggest . indeed , three-quarters of americans do indeed feel connected to their communities and say that the quality of a life there is an excellent or good thing ; 40 % say work with others within their own community is the most important it is managed . the situation was exacerbated further by the post-2008 downturn . citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have changed as dramatically as did their reactions to poll questions . as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system was designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy .
new york – history at any given moment can be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or as a moving image , telling us not just where we are but where we have been , and where we might be headed . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . it is a distinction of vast differences .
initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while providing equitable access to services among residents , should be subsidized by the central government . that does not necessarily entail inundating people with daily news stories of global environmental devastation ; by contrast , that approach may result in desensitization . some are just the third pillar of a strategy to address air pollution . in fact , innovators may also drive pollution abatement . shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) , for example , a project providing on-demand helicopter transportation , leverages a city ’s well-known , innovative capacities , while tackling congestion .
after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , severe negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an overall agreement – could resume . meanwhile , an de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society is the most urgent priority . everything else that has already failed , may be the only choices left for israelis and palestinians . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . perhaps , but , thus far , conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even catastrophic .
first , the european financial stability facility ( efsf ) must serve to rescue the banking system , just as eu member states must do so . bringing the banking system under european supervision rather than leaving it at the mercy of national authorities would be a fundamental improvement that would help to restore confidence . this would enable the sovereign-debt regime to be restructured without triggering the banking crisis . and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of the relief operation . despite this added task , the magnitude of the rescue package could remain as much as any amount used for recapitalizing or dis-liquidating banks would actually reduce what governments need .
second , without an effective and accountable opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and overly focused on their own supporters . third , at some point over the coming year , the uk will confront a referendum over its membership in the european union . while no one knows that the position corbyn will head on on on this issue , one could speculate that he , like some members of the trade-union bosses who support him , might decide that the eu is a rich people ’s club , thereby precluding the much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership . in this scenario , the conservative party ’s far-right leaders are likely to think that they may dispense with the offer of disciplined support from prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour could never win under corbyn , no matter how much . on the other hand , may is able to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary respect but is not very liked .
after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , so the government granted substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . in fact , america ’s government felt that it had a soft hand , because it was not prepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations . the bailout was brought about by aig ’s large losses on troubled derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . at this point , the government asked aig ’s professionals to take a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , to accept a rebate regarding the amount owed by them . when some of these parties refused , the government backed down and funded aig ’s payments on all of its derivative obligations fully .
at last , the world must recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s peace process were fully dashed . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and continued rocket fire on its civilian targets within the country . israel has a long history of determined that it has no interest in reneging on its control over the gaza strip . in some ways , hamas ’s overthrow makes things clearer . gaza is ruled by an completely antagonistic regime .
the aberrant periods in us history are the 100 or so years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . between 1800 and 1900 , global gdp grew by more than 50 % , and then more than doubled over the subsequent 50 years , with economies growing at a much faster rate than at any other time since then . human lives became markedly more productive , with life expectancies increasing dramatically . in the late 1970s , growth began to slow in a number of advanced western economies ; and us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a cycle of debt that supercharged activity . technological innovation and demography are now landwind , not tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering can not save the day .
the dpj ’s presidency , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp prime minister general , is an exemplar of this blinkered legacy . the kernel of japan ’s policy inertia consists in the country ’s current pseudo-two-party system , which comprises the ldp and the dpj , as parties ’ divisions in fact are devoid of any consistent ideological and policy distinctions . both parties include conservatives and liberals ; defensive hawks and the doves . the sad likelihood that the ldp will reform or that the dpj will develop into a unaccountable governing party in the foreseeable future is slim . japan appears to have condemned to accept chronic and nonsensical political trench warfare until some crisis forces the realignment of the political party along its ideological and policy lines .
and , because his suspension of parliament outraged insurgent conservatives , who previously balked at bringing down their own government , a sort of no-confidence vote now stands a greater chance of succeeding . but bringing down the government would be inadequate to halt a no-deal brexit . that would require conservative insurgents , the opposition of the liberal democrats and likewise mps who dropped labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – a tall order . at the same time , the motley crew of rebellions would need to support the formation of a fully caretaker government , which seeks brexit enlargement , call a general election , and perhaps also a legislate to hold a second referendum . moreover , the labour party leader , jeremy corbyn , the hardline socialist and clofixed brexiteer , insists that such a government should .
so those profits should be taxed to the us . this arrangement also required the typically vigilant america ’s internal revenue service to play along . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic levy for allowing it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a tiny tax to dosirs . curiously , the irs choose not to enforce apple a obligation to levy taxes on its us-sourced ip returns . asi ’s gains stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based entirely on american-conducted research and development ( most of it underpinned by federal government funding ) .
each has gained ( or retained ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . the pekos have been enabled by the modern news media , which scrambling for audience share , simplifying , and sensationalizing issues . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most attention , the majority of this . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , and generates the electoral polarization on which the pekos have nourished . this political strategy is unquestionably efficient .
that suggestion might be amusing the coming baby ; but there is nothing entertaining when governments apply it , as they are increasingly doing , to complex policies that involve science and technology . ” to gauge public opinion ahead of decision-making scheduled for later this year on whether to permit commercial planting of gm crop , the british government sponsored ( to great detriment ) a host of public discourse around the country . at the same time , local governments and other organizations have held hundreds of extra public meetings . for example , britons had their reporting during this summer on whether they would like gene-spliced , or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields , and foods . the director of the british debates ’ organizing committee , professor malcolm scored , has called them “ a singular experiment to determine what common people truly think once had heard every argument . ”
lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes . in reality , the kremlin is financing a number of such parties . today , european governments seem willing to allow putin to buy the votes with which he demolishes the eu . there are other kremlin supporters at the same time , including corporate leaders who are willing to return to business as usual with russia and the academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after his collapse , see a chance for vindication . and , with public opinion polls uncovered that a significant minority of europeans is falling in line with putin ’s populist rhetoric , his dividing the eu and nato strategy looks like genuine headway .
fitfully agricultural practices are also to blame : the liberal use of “ synthetic ” fertilizer , for example , is decimates soils and altered its structures . according to the world bank ’s estimation , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide would disqualify millions of mainly smallholders , pastoralists and indigenous peoples have been hit by large-scale investments . in germany alone , building projects contend with an average of more than 75 hectares ( population ) a day . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form ; now , a cloudburst is all it takes to wash it away . at the same time , rising global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels continues to grow , in turn driving the value of soil – an inability to escape the attention of international investors .
america ’s war against iran is plausible only as a response to the blatant and imminent iranian call for its vital us interests , such as a major terrorist attack , its invasion of its ally in the gulf region , or the disruption of the free flow of middle east oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . convinced that history will judge a us president by its success in containing the iranian threat , morales also predicts that a full-scale war with iran would reignite the american economy . that is a curious idea , given that today ’s two simultaneous wars have only compounded america ’s economy ’s weaknesses . like north korea , iran will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at generating pressure on defiant states .
in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continue to impede the investment required to modernize public-sector enterprises , and has imposed a major roadblock in the way of land reform . for example , when a government borrows to purchase land , it treats debt as an offsetting transaction , but an offsetting transaction when it sells land through the subprime mortgage effectively goes nowhere . it is here that germany should embrace pause , and look on track . the imf ’s economic framework still does not provide for countercyclical fiscal policies because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy during the downturns . while it is not supposed to intervene at any given country ’s day-to-day governance , its voice undoubtedly will be influential .
washington , dc – donald trump has formally been inaugurated as us president , but the questions that russia poses for its election interference will not go away . but there is a difference between hoping for an outcome and turning great lengths to bear and incurring great risks – to help bring it about . in our view , america ’s intelligence agencies fail to conclude that by helping trump , the kremlin has been advancing its own “ longstanding desire to undermine ” the us-led liberal democratic order is not altogether compelling . to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin favored trump by his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a very different question between hoping for an outcome and getting great lengths , and expecting high risks , to help bring it about .
specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that improves the ease of doing business in india , while targeting better welfare delivery mechanisms . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an anemic 8-8.5 % rate in the coming fiscal year . it is fair to say that the usually staid statistics department was stealing the thunder from this year ’s budget . no budget changes could generate such a label , cost free acceleration of growth . yet treasury secretary arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts simultaneously , not least in its mix of vision and execution .
in its first decades , communist china built its military strength and simultaneously employed the soft power of a maoist revolutionary doctrine and a third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . after the failure of its imperialist greater east asian co-prosperity scheme of the 1930s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and relied on strategic alliances with america . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , and spent vast resources to make itself attractive overseas . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its objective , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . yet , following the exhaustion of a “ maoist strategy ” in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development .
at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on that progress , agreeing to adhere to the momentum of reform . to succeed , the government must , as xi has put it , “ gnaw even tough bones ” – that is , overcome the vested interests resisting change . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as withdrawing a retired member of the people ’s politburo standing committee , china , the most powerful institution . regulatory reforms are starting to alleviate shadow-banking risks , and even some ghost towns are reviving market forces . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have been falling dramatically since the beginning of this year , with the authorities seemingly well-on the way to hit the carbon-intensity goal established in 2010 .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
waiting lists for hospital beds will be more than one-third in all but one in under the age of two . in keeping with the times ’ spirit , governments introduce business criteria to measure effectiveness -- and " success , " more generally -- of public utilities . so their ministers proclaim that a street crime will be halved over the next spring , or that the proportion of each generation goes to universities will rise to 50 % within the next spring of five years . that means , first and foremost , setting performance targets . this method of corporate governance makes it appear that over long last , we can hold policymakers accountable by establishing whether or not targets were met .
peru ’s president , alejandro toledo , coined the new extreme sport , the soccer game in which he was the sole player . rather than kicking the ball to win , he aims to do just that with his opposition scores . toledo assumed the presidency planning to dismantle the corruption that had labeled fujimori ’s administrations and put an end to the rule of his crooked ’s intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos . toledo claimed that he would send all dishonest officials to prison – words that have captured the imagination of peruvians yearning to see criminal politicians brought to justice . this helps to explain why , with more than half of his life leaving , the man who led the popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds up a mere 7 % of his popularity rating today – the lowest ranking of any peruvian leader since 1980 when democracy was restored .
conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his talks with carter in the 1980 ’s is often credited with his triumph . in the 2004 election , soon before the us presidential election , osama bin laden unleashed the videotape tape that may have helped president bush defeat senator john kerry . viewed from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were more helpful to his efforts to recruit supporters than perhaps kerry ’s . a mistake in a subsequent presidential debate may swing the tide of popular opinion overnight , as happened with then-president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 . another event that could turn the tables is a “ october surprise ” linked to terrorism , which could shift the agenda from a return to financial crisis to security , the republican party ’s stronger suit .
so why not elect a man like lugovoi who truly represents what the elite stands for ? would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance into a political draw on an ideal solution to the problem of finding putin ’s heir ? that search , after all , threatens to divide the national elite . let the us compare the two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 . but i see a practical turn in all of this that no one has yet broached .
their mythical tribe has been great in some mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? such thinking poses a severe threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and generally undermining the liberal world order will severely harm the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to give them a helping hand to coal miners in west virginia . compelling will always manage , but the weakness will bear the burden of the kind of nostalgic protectionism that erodes the benefits of globalization . the un ’s sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 depends entirely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation .
some will argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in overhauling the benefits of social stability needed to sustain economic development . there is also a need for state involvement to help manage inequality , and to ensure that inclusive growth patterns are inclusive , to which markets alone can not count on doing so . moreover , the chinese state has been addressing coordinating problems that are not easily or effectively handled through decentralized markets , particularly in the developing world , where market institutions and administrative capacity can be at different stages of development . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in overhauling the kind of social stability required to sustain economic development . others argue that spurring the kind of innovation needed to reach high-income status will require that the state be less like a market participant and more like referees , regulator , and the arbiter of economic and social priorities .
egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will surpass 11 % of gdp this year . yet the country ’s leaders have stalling on terms of a much-needed private-sector loan . almost all political stakeholders in egypt , as they have elsewhere in the transition , recognize the need for economic reform . but lack of economic urgency is not reflected in a policy response that has been painfully slow or non-existent . the government ’s reduced fuel subsidies last year was not followed by additional reforms , and the required tax hikes soon followed by president mohamed morsi .
how many poor children will suffer – or die from inadequate food and sanitation ? and yet that , too , could go some way toward doing a very good . our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that , among the near-one-half that reductions in public spending occur , common adjustment measures involve public-sector cutbacks or caps ; withdrawal of food subsidies ; and targeting and rationalizing already meager social-protection systems . these adjustment measures are frequently adopted without careful examination of their social impact . how many children will miss out on education , because their teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because locals must work to supplement their family income ?
the first scenario is bleak : germany fails refugee integration socially and economically ; political discontent surges ; and its arrivals are becoming increasingly frustrated with their plight . any steps they take to break down , which frustration will embolden right-wing populists and might lead to violence from both sides . indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . the world has a large proportion of its gdp , in which scenario prevails . if a terrorist attack should have occurred at worst , – especially one that could , to some extent , unite refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
what is clear is that the interests of a “ military as an institution ” depend on the army to establish much greater separation from the regime . successful political transitions help , too , if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own ” the forces of protest and the resulting transition . in this respect , the fact that mubarak ’s instant resignation originated from cairo ’s tahrir square , rather than from the obama administration , is a positive development . on the other hand , the army ’s resolve to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or horse – to trial in cairo ’s tahrir square and attack thousands of anti-government protesters was a classic “ army ” like the government ” movement . at that point , a more democratic transition will most likely require the army to play a more active role in deterring protesters .
yet the extent of america ’s cooperation with the icc has exceeded even the more constructive role that the obama administration has proposed . indeed , evidently , american policymakers have become increasingly receptive to the potential of the international criminal court to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or galvanize its own torturers with justice at american courts ) , such a role would have been vulnerable to both an international and domestic political assault . at the same time , obviously they would work in close cooperation with ugandan forces . but does uganda work , following such severe in libya ’s intervention , herald police roles in the us whenever the un or the icc – which lacking their own police force – have relied on its members , and interstate cooperation – the judges that it is necessary ?
deep at the heart of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : the belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish you make with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves , not the state ; that people can cross the oceans and mountains to make for themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed , not through luck and corruption , but through preparation and industry . these are not beliefs conducive to social democracy , so they are not beliefs conducive to a system of social democracy . part of the reason not to do well is that most americans fail to recognize what wo n’t happen . one poll found that 19 % of americans think their incomes place them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope for the top 1 % someday . so why do n’t americans feel any further alarm at their country ’s rising income inequality ?
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity , and we have yet to respond with it . if we set our minds before it , we could be the first in human history to let our children do nothing : without greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course that world leaders set when they met at the united nations in new york on september 25 to adopt the un ’s sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals ranges from ending poverty to improving health to protecting the planet ’s biosphere , and to providing power for all . they have emerged from the biggest un summit in the un ’s history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the largest consultation the un has ever undertaken .
victims of online harassment often respond with self-censorship , and many , with its sense of safety , and even self-worth , eroded , removing itself from social media altogether . women and minorities are particularly likely to be victims of online harassment , but anybody can targeted . the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , has become the object of conspiracy theories and targets for intense harassment once leadership has been present at two terrorist attacks in each other within two weeks of each other . so the noisiest is often rewarded with a megaphone at a megaphone , while less polarizing , less privileged voices are drowned out , even when they deliver smart-nuanced perspectives that can genuinely enrich public debate . if an algorithm fails to perform the job of silencing the less privileged voices , online trolls often step up , directing hateful , and threatening speech at whomever they chose .
africans have barely count on american policies as a result . i single out america not because it is unique in its disregard , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead . africans do not vote ; nor do they buy us products ; they do not put themselves at risk of violence . indeed , few rich countries do much better than the u.s. . they are simply poor , starving , and disease-ridden .
this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . hence , as he put it in 1932 , there might be “ no escape from prolonged – and perhaps forever – depression except through direct state intervention to encourage and subsidize new investment ” – for which the obama administration rightly does . on the question of what caused the crash , the debate has more even come . krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributes a crash to “ irrationality ” ; which , as cochrane points out , is no theory . in my view , keynes ’s significant input into economic theory was to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness ” of the base of knowledge upon which our estimates of prospective yield must be made .
sometimes , though , moral rectitude and economics merge , presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case now , from the perspectives of that archbishop and former us treasury secretary larry summers , with the world bank ’s response to inaction on climate change , is the case . the morally imperative is incontrovertible , because the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature changes , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by a globalized poor , who , too , have benefited the least from the many economic activities that cause it . indeed , their opportunities sometimes seem mutually exclusive , making the decisions along which route to take exceedingly challenging each other . cape town – researchers in general – are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and do what benefit is economically .
hallyday was the child of an entire generation that watched american gais enter paris , and that invented for itself an americanized ascendance . abiding in each of us was johnny that had moved us all : the youth spent with a trip operation , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; his father , a character out of modiano , who , between his bouts of drinking , pawned donations to him by his or her abandoned son . he was a consummate artist of the “ french scene , ” a chameleon beamed on satellite tv , dripping up with fake sweat , and real-glitz , who , like a novelist , manifests himself as a way of lying . and then , there was the ’60s rocker with the eyes of a sad wolff and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , a catcher in the rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn him to be living on the fringes of every form of excess . and on that day he was pretty well lamented that his absence appears to be part of a show , somehow making us forget that he was not another longer with the us .
more importantly , post-wwii capitalism has maintained full employment for many years , with unemployment often soaring to at least 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . the keys to that period of growth and happiness were the strong social-welfare system and mainly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in every large state of the world . it was , of course , subject to ups and downs , but it was not susceptible to the financial crises of the type we see today . job insecurity back at the time was largely unknown , and mass poverty vanished . on top of all this , every advanced economy pursued policies aimed at generating high wages , guaranteeing robust consumption and thus steady growth .
that seems to reflect the stance expressed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – which helped to set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europeans needed more fiscal integration , but without the eu ; there would not have been british financial participation on future european rescue operations . solidarity ( at least the kind that costs money ) stopped at the english channel . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s campaign , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity . the us is an interest and linked , but not an one absorbed .
in this crisis , an american president should form a united front with human rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow , sustain , and support those iranians who have been or may yet be arrested or worse . what the west can do to apply pressure on iran , as well as on other governments in the future , to assure and account for the protesters ’ safety . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who advocate the free assembly . that will welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes installed and snatching out american and opposition leaders and journalists languishing in those countries for having engaged in just such protest . natan sharansky has stated that this tactic , the west ’s monitoring and demanding accountability for the treatment of individual domestic dissenters , has helped to break up the soviet union .
russia ’s membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . moreover , russia should be treated as a major power , which implies consultations on an important global problem . there should also be some understanding for what the russian and russian people have gone through over the last two decades . closer ties between russia and europe make sense , for similar reasons . losing a country and a special place in the world is the sort of trauma that could spur the emergence of extreme and potentially violent nationalism .
but a consensus has emerged in brazil that the left party can neither win nor govern with a hard-left mindset , and that lula ’s presidency has failed to challenge that view . there may be a broad consensus to thwart the success of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of brazil ’s privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and the growth of brazil ’s middle class . the biggest are not always the lawlessness on which the world bank and development agencies have targeted ; rather , they are the entrepreneurial risks of a corporate failure or a polity that is about to implodes . whichever case , for the brazilian left ’s key leaders , including rousseff , the return of capitalism , has become part of the solution , not a fundamental problem . indeed , investors take all sorts of risk .
of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenues – and not just apple ’s . products will not have to be made into such factories , and then shipped to us customers or inventory centers . one big loser in this world will be freight trades ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . when things can be made , employed , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation diminishes dramatically . recycled materials need not deliver treatment to centralized processing centers and then passed on to factories .
london – in the 1960 ’s , the green revolution , which comprised the development of higher-yielding crop varieties , the proliferation of irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production worldwide . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in the developing world , which affects the most through crop failure and food-price volatility . indeed , by 2050 , the global human population is expected to surpass nine billion . surmounting these challenges will not be easy , either . achieving food security means ensuring that everyone has consistent , affordable access to the right types of nutrients , despite soil and water limitations , from climate change and the increasing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes .
indeed , for many years , erdoğan ’s administration has stuck to what they describe as the “ putsches ” of the regime . europe is for turkey “ a principle of moderation ” and enticement to remain democratic . turkey , not the european union , currently makes its own presence felt . turkey , not the european union , currently makes its own presence felt . in reality , for turkey needs europe the same as europe needs turkey .
yet government expenditures on cancer averages around $ 4 trillion annually . that is just over 0.5 % of an estimated $ 718 billion annual us gdp of roughly $ 718 billion . in fact , last year ’s 580,000 cancer deaths exceed those of the roughly 430,000 battle deaths , on average ; in world war i , world war ii , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . more people died of cervical cancer during the previous year than during the fighting . by contrast , experience indicates that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats until they reach a crisis .
i had hoped that the us would have the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and start deep into our national psyche called into question : “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a way ? ” so far , the us is no closer than the us was following the attack to answer to that question , because it can not even find a nerve to ask . resolving this question is increasingly frustrating to me , as i run away from plausible explanations . a columnist for saudi arabia recently asked me why five of the six students that he interviewed at king saud university still believed that al qaida had not been responsible for any attack on the world trade center and pentagon in america last year ? i used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day .
moreover , income inequality widened , with the global phenomenon of growing wealth concentration at a very high level in many arab countries . while tunisia was an extreme case in the regime furthering the economic interests of a small cliques of insiders , the pattern has been wide . top incomes in these countries have come largely from political patronage rather than from innovations and hard work . that is why the knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” prescription for more liberalization and privatization is inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . there is a clear political need for an growth strategy , in which inclusion is the centerpiece , rather than the afterthought .
germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means it is acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by major us trading partners . yet that is no longer the case . few countries are more interconnected from the postwar order than germany ’s , which , like japan ’s before 1945 , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to a rules-based trading system . trump ’s protectionist policies thus call into question the entire german economic model , as it has existed since the 1950s . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are focused not just on trade , but on america ’s departure from the pax americana itself .
during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on increasing france ’s gdp growth to within an average of at least 2 % annually and cut the unemployment rate to below 6 % . the easiest way to achieve both objectives would be to focus on where france is under-performing relative to the rest of the eu . france has some of the highest labor costs on hourly workers in the eu , and a natural outcome is tepid on hiring . with inequality also growing , many french are rightly upset that labor is taxed far more widely than the rate of capital income . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs .
in early december , putin signed the 2015 federal budget act , which foresaw 2 % of annual gdp growth and budget deficits , committed to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , along with the tough economic sanctions imposed by america and europe , meant that by the end of the month , the government projected 4 % gdp decline and the budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , and that following budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that by the end of this year , russia will spend 70 % of gdp on reserves accrued during the past decade or so , when oil prices were high . should low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions stay in place , russia will run out of cash by the end of 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
given that libra will take the form of private money tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ? a standard system of efficient markets ” analysis does not help us to answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting . if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with one-size-fits-all currencies , it would n’t then pour into that safe asset at the first hint of trouble in the domestic economy ? as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to transmit money to be as easy as sending a message . ” but , of course , libra is marketed much more than this .
the recently rising euro also helped to hold down european long-term interest rates – a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorated somewhat in the euro-zone region . during april , the spike in inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation occurred more or less concurrently . yields on ten-year german bonds , which might have been expected to go higher as a result of worsening inflationary expectations during that period , barely moved . this has been a large plus for sustaining economic recovery . should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in america ’s financial assets at a certain point in time ; a rising european will help shield european interest-rate hikes .
the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is run by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with a future determined by the scottish referendum in 2014 . this political entity is a accurate counterpart across the political world to a quite well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring . when stressed , a large surface bifurcates within the great hunks , but then disintegration continues into smaller and smaller fragments . of the six larger eu states , only france has a truly centralized political system . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but poland today does dominate a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with a future determined by the scottish referendum in 2014 .
just as we follow our leaders ’ commands to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our own careers and our money to those who run citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks , because we trusted their leaders to be fair to their employees and clients and honorable in their business practices . we do not grow up wishing to work for dominos and liars . we believe in banknotes , because we collectively decide to put confidence in our government when it says that $ 100 is $ 100 , not $ 50 or $ 50 . money , therefore , is about confidence ; without which no society could function . once that trust collapses , the wrong things are what matters .
he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , rather than rage – in sharp contrast to , say , yugoslavia ’s violent breakup . despite rising to power with kgb backing , he did not surrender his thought processes to this machine , in the manner of president vladimir putin ’s clear societies . ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not be saved ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . likewise , far from fitting the democratic machine ’s mold , sanders is working to roll back the party , “ to the social democratic left , ” where it belongs . like franklin and sanders , gorbachev has been an unlikely reformer .
those in the developing world who believe that there has been a history of bargaining history in bad faith have a strong case . unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators are swinging around large numbers when describing the bargains of even an imperfect agreement . in fact , america ’s agricultural subsidies are just that . whatever economics , taking that route might be harder today than ever : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that embrace what is universally viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . that leaves the developing countries facing tough choices : will they be better off accepting the crumbs to be offered ?
princeton – recently , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) ( lhc ) , the world ’s fastest-growing accelerator , located near geneva at the european nuclear association organization ( cern ) , announced that celebrated discoveries in 2012 of higgs boson were really the higgs boson . four years ago , doomsayers predicted that the lhc would produce a microscopic black holes that would swallow the earth in a matter of months . of course , those prophets were not neither the first nor the last of their species . latter-day nostrums have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , over high-energy particle physics experiments . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete , except for one crucial element : the black holes .
monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the democratization process of the 1980s and the 1990s , successive governments tried to tame hyperinflation , which had reached 2,477 % in 1993 . the enactment of a “ real plan , ” initiated in 1994 , succeeded in spurring annual price growth to a “ acceptable ” 22 % rate by the subsequent year . today , as central bankers in the developed world fret about the deflation threat , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond to widespread fears about slowing growth and a return to high inflation . riding on the road map , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a former economy minister , was doubly elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) , underscoring voter concerns about price stability .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was grim . those who think that globalization , technology , and a market economy will fix the world ’s problems seemed subdued . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions and source-market fragilities , these “ masters of the universe ” appeared less omniscient than they had done a short time before . and it was not just the bankers who were at davos this year that they thought central bankers . most of the chastened of all were the bankers .
the european central bank has provided plenty of emergency “ liquidity ” finance to banks that they use to purchase even larger government debt . that is holding down interest rates on that debt in the short run but creates even larger potential losses when it comes to potential defaults . the banks and policy are deeply intertwined in all advanced economies . diamond has discovered this , ultimately trump ’s central bankers . now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone periphery , government defaults are threatening to hit major banks .
even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s has given an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , which contributes to wasting and inefficiency in existing production systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning the welfare division of labor into infrastructure investment and management between the public and private sectors , with the goal of crowding in the latter . yet , despite low mediocre growth rates , the bottom quintile of the population grew by more than 6 % annually in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective welfare policies . provided that the government continues its comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to healthcare , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead .
according to the latest figures running through july or august for most countries , there are “ just 14 instances of high inflation ( a red line at a figure ) . ” iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and most african countries comprise the rest . in periods following the era of oil-price shocks of the 1970s , until the early 1980s , nearly two-thirds of countries recorded an annual inflation rate above 10 % . the share of countries recording outright deflation in their consumer prices ( the green line ) is greater in 2015 than that of countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of gdp ) . venezuela ( which did not publish official inflation statistics earlier this year ) , and argentina ( which failed to release reliable inflation data for a few years ) figure has been prominently prominently in this group .
in the absence of sufficient funding , one can simply let the universities deteriorate . overcrowded classrooms in often deficient physical surroundings , lacking the needed equipment , have led to ever longer periods of study , deteriorating quality degrees , and much unhappiness at both students and professors . on the european continent , this had been happening until the 1970s . for the most part , the fast fixes they imposed have n’t been very successful . there certainly is an alternative .
only the war ’s bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . the need for the kosova to be liberated from milosevic ’s grip has been so visible for most of the past decade . two million kosovars suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of their lives , from basic security to education . for years , they have attempted to express their grievances through peaceful means . as a political activist in the dying days of yugoslavia , i tried to build upon the philosophy of un-violence , leading demonstrations and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent .
simultaneously , efforts at nation-building along secular lines were reflected in egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party , which resulted in the establishment of a united arab republic , a union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 until 1961 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts of the arab world were the result of not so much political tendencies , rather than reflecting widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already lost , libya on the verge of collapse , and egypt ’s return to power by the army and emasculating the muslim brotherhood , tunisia had been the sole success . tunisia adopted its new constitution on june 27 , thereby blurring the path for what will be the most secular , and fairest elections in any region of the region . the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 .
berlin – the ways we eat in the industrialized world are unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . globally , an estimated 300 million tons of meat are produced each year , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that its annual gdp will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues at its current pace . such large amounts of meat can simply be produced at an industrialized scale , with high social , political , and ecological costs . far too much of the meat we consume is produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions . and now our industrial model for meat production is powered by the global south , in particular india and china , where meat consumption is rising among these countries ’ aging middle class .
cambridge – for some time now , the top four horsemen of american macroeconomic policymaking have been taxation , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . having closely studied the first in detail , i found that tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . while i have regarded the latter zone in less detail , evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , little contributor to growth . a third area is very important , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so disconcerting . indeed , the fourth area exists only in us rhetoric : an infrastructure program that currently lacks a component of macroeconomic policy repertoire .
but there will come a time when this tailwind subsides and china begins to converge on the advanced economies ’ so-called frontier . at that point , china will confront the same productivity challenges that confronting america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk . without powerful innovations , sustaining us productivity growth will be an uphill battle . as gordon notes , there have been long-lasting productivity dividends associated with urbanization – a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china .
by contrast , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan and deal with bond holders issued by puerto rico ’s urgent interest fund companies ( cofina ) that could place the island on a path of debt straitjacket indefinitely . and the cofina bargain is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring drive , which is based on an unrealistic assessment of the commonwealth ’s economic conditions . the sad reality has not been captured by a window of opportunity for puerto rico ’s fiscal boat . at the same time , at $ 17.8 billion , the stock of cofina bonds ( backed by prospective sales-tax revenues ) accounts for more than one-third of total debt for the new fiscal plan . but the plan was projected to deleverage even further , and it also failed to establish an adequate basis for calculating how much debt-restructuring puerto rico needs .
ten years on , what impact have the principles had on displaced people ? we raised awareness of the displaced ’s plight , brought about changes in government policies and raised billions of dollars to respond to their basic needs . this has helped to save countless lives . the successes are a notable , if insufficient , condition . humanitarian efforts continue to be strengthened , including through a new rapid-funding mechanism , the un central emergency fund .
andrew carnegie , the wealthiest man of veblen ’s era , was blunt in his moral judgments . “ the man who dies the wealthy is frequently quoted as saying , the dies disgraced . ” you could tailor that judgment to a man or woman who owns a $ 30,000 watch , or had been purchasing similar luxury goods , like perhaps $ 12,000 handbag . in essence , such a person says ; “ i ’m either extraordinarily ignorant , or just plain selfish . ” wearing a watch that costs 200 times as much as one doing a better job of keeping time says otherwise even after registering people who are not governing in a relatively poor country .
but then do each alternative that was suggested as parfit revived the problem , and other philosophers began offering solutions . on the contrary , parfit argued , desires may well turn out to be irrational . when reasons and persons could easily have been three separate books , on what issues really are : the first two volumes of published in 2011 , whereas more than a third , in a press when parfit died , had just come to mind . on this monumental work work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit challenges a thought – nearly university-predicted economists , and many of the philosophers of david vitter onward – that the role of reason tells us how to get “ what we want ” but not to tell us exactly what to want . he demonstrates that both the “ total ” and the average ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications .
moreover , we need to reduce mental-health inequity , a frequently ignored issue . that is often a problem in lower-income communities , where populations might be at greater risk of pathology , and frequently face major barriers to gaining care , partly owing to a lack of specialized resources at wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its deputies in davos . seeking mental-health care should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatments for high blood pressure , diabetes , or cardiac condition . in addition , we must diminish mental-health inequity , a frequently ignored matter .
the american public understands this , even if their own president does n’t . experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack as a result of a dubai takeover is tiny . because of this , americans can not afford to take even the minutiae of chances with their ports , the consequences of error are too staggering to contemplate . should the damage inflicted on a terrorist attack also be small , there would be little challenges . but the damage inflicted by the us might be tremendous , for ports are thought to be one of the few ways that terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons in the us .
but the four political developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into a high-profile summit on its own . first , the revolutions in the arab world , and in nato ’s military intervention in libya , have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and northern africa . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates revived the discussion of transatlantic burden sharing and solidarity within the alliance . second , the international financial crisis will have enormous impact on nato ’s members ’ defense budgets . finally , the first nato summit to take place in the united states in 13 years occurs not only in the election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown .
yet smallholders can not be ignored when they approach a climate-change solution : the world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production , and provides up to 80 % of our food supplies in developing countries . collectively , they manage vast regions of our planet , including more than 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on these farmers , germany in desperately poor , to assume a leadership role in addressing its twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ? can they produce more food , while protecting the natural environment ? we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes .
the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s enforced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as did the country ’s own move toward retaliation : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright prohibitions by us governments and the united states . lifting these constraints would not only give the economy an immediate boost , but would also boost long-term gdp growth . one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investment . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from making investments in more than 40 industries designated “ critical to national security ” by the us government . that ban , while beneficial for industrial insiders , has reduced russia ’s access to financial markets and , more ominous , to new technologies that follow the funding stream .
throughout the run-up to talks with eu leaders ahead of the greek referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an exemplified clause in may ’s decision to move toward ever-closer union . in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany remained very hesitant about eu enlargement . should trump win the support of a referendum and persuade swing voters , he would send a perilous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe . but the uk ’s support had a hard catch : british leaders , reluctant to accept the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – made no secret of their desire to use the widening state of eu membership to thwart a deepening of european integration . the relationship between cee countries and the uk has always been rather fraught .
the business majors should study economic and political history so that they can avoid becoming a blind , determinists . and law students should focus on the crossroads of large data and human rights in order to gain the insights that will be required to defend humans from forces that might seek to turn individuals into disposable parts . economists need to learn the lessons of engineering graduate students because it will be engineers building the future of the workforce . and workers of the future will require training in ethics , helping them to navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . to be sure , educators preparing students to do so must start now .
in effect , the system has become mostly self-regulating . in my experience , 99 % of all censors do with the writers and producers themselves . a top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; a lower level has little collaborative input , and no appeal right . sporadic complaints and warnings from above enables them to develop an counterintuitive sense of the boundaries of acceptable content , so they produce show that they are free from offending material from the start . serious breaches can result in reprimands , or dismissals .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s government has decided to expand its diet its current session for 95 days , by the time of september 27 made available for the longest continuous session in japan ’s postwar history . the reason is obvious : abe is committed to passing a set of national-security bills allowed for reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution , which enables the country to play a larger role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s actions in the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he cracked the japanese tradition . for the preceding 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 focused on economic debates at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , and recommended action , or , more often , inaction . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines .
in germany ’s parliament , chancellor of the exchequer announced that yeltsin will “ renew necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … and i have been able to achieve agreement with president clinton , president chirac , and premier prominent that we will now refrain strongly from addressing the significant matter of nato-russia enlargement into some framework in order to make no sense of we are making fiat acpli . ” in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato had put enlargement on hold while both the russian and us presidential elections had passed . he instructed ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , and proposed that talks not to be left at the hand of nato machinery on their own . in order to underline this , the chancellor ’s first foreign-policy activism after a return from his retirement years in early september to ailing boris yeltsin , with whom kohl had friendly relations . this visit yielded another appeal not to rush nato enlargement .
the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values that includes a stronger emphasis on individual freedom and individual responsibility . only this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases . yet , when it comes to any change of course , there are holdouts . those changes are also triggering changes in people ’s consciousness . in this world without utopia , there is the supreme value of individual freedom .
governments and international financial institutions scrambled to establish a solution , within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not just the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . so far , many questions have been answered about the design ; implementation will be at least as challenging . the stakes could not be higher . london , too , has finally sunk the gravity of europe ’s crisis .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . washington , dc , while much of the developed world is justifiably worried about myriad privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and requires – and hedged for individuals a “ right ” to be forgotten , ” many around the world are posing a very different question : what about the should be seen ?
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the united states , and mexico . the swiss federal ministry of public health has also overseen an experiment in prescribing the heroin to people who lived with opiate large-scale dependency . the swiss re-examined their government ’s drug policies with a pragmatic eye . medical professionals took the lead in a campaigns to press the government , via the mechanisms of foreign direct democracy , to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users for using public-health policies that are based on the scientific evidence for which works . the swiss implemented methadone programs and to prevent hiv prevalence , created needle exchanges , including in prisons , and establish safe injection rooms on a massive scale .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence ( ai ) will have on how our economies and labor markets have long been a hot topic . soon , a new kind of enhanced uber may emerge , integrating car , bus , ship , airplane crash , and hotel rooms into just a single super-app . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on markets ’ workings is its ability to earn enormous returns in high-speed trading by being a microsecond “ ahead ” on everyone else . another is the price-discrimination capacity of new electronic market makers like uber , which thus fitting every part of the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . but jerusalem stuck kaplan ’s recent book humans need not apply : a guide for wealth and employment in the age of artificial intelligence has been struck upon me the true magnitude of the socioeconomic stakes .
in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including through differentiating the necessary from a desirable one . to that end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily accessible fresh water at home , and more than twice the whopping 4.5 billion – a whopping 4.5 billion – lack of safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river-pollution . with an increasing share of the world ’s population – including many more people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that are holding back on environmental protection , water provision , and health could not be more critical . global health and conservation professionals must cooperate more closely to identify those solutions – and persuade policymakers to pursue them .
that is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model is based on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than electricity usage . firms across industries now need to invest in their understanding of new technology to be ready to seize opportunities or mount effective defense quickly . in addition , disruptive technologies will cause value shifts among industries of the economy , as occurred when television overtook radio or , more recently , at a time when online media have acquired predominance over print publication . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , and are continuously assessing how innovations impact the status quo , specifically their earnings pools . indeed , large firms in nearly every field are vulnerable as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and capable , like larger firms of reaching customers and users everywhere .
the task amounts to that generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete targets . over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed an almost two billion additional people annually adequately – no small feat . by 2013 , the proportion had declined to 13.5 % . though the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than it did in 1991 , 209 million fewer were starving . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global goals that they will need to meet by 2030 .
15 people were killed , and many more injured in what is remembered as the peterloo massacre . given the recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite reluctantly agreed to get rid of reform . ultimately , the reform act of 1832 abolished the “ rotten boroughs ” and expanded the franchise of a new middle class ( the working class and women would have had to wait ) . the united states also went though a steelon industrialization in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s . the greed and corruption of that era were satirized by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : a story of that day .
but , thanks to farage – as well as the flemish faragism that overtook over the governing conservative party , an economic self-harm act that plainly runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . whereas the vanquished side waged an economic campaign centered on fear of job losses away from exiting the eu , the victorious leave party waged a culture war by exaggerating its fears of immigration and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ” narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british disease : across the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , with a lack of human face and akin to an uncontrollable runaway runaway train . what makes things worse in britain , however , is a mass of political judgment during and after the 2016 brexit referendum campaign . moderate leaders everywhere must now react not just to the economic discontent of the millions who are losing it , but also to cultural pessimism and dismissal of politicians as they are about alone ” that gives succor the populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk .
a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many were conflicting and overlapping . the ande proposed the creation of a new court by amending the constitution . every firm and the business association must decide the best strategies and tactics to pursue in its own countries . it has been successful because of strong public support for the fight against corruption . a new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflict and duplicate them .
just a year ago , everybody gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what the us stood up against : a corrupt government that sought to command the lives and labor of a dispose of state assets , at its will . in such a way as formal legal rights had existed , no court could be relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their own interests as being contested . in evicting that regime , we believed , that this form of absolutism was ended . instead , those who benefited from regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the property they stolen were inviolate . how did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ?
another community nearby had the same program , except that micronutrient supplement was delivered without protein . they stayed in school longer , learned more , scored a higher role on cognitive trial in adulthood , and gave more voice to recruitment in higher-paid , skilled jobs . furthermore , health workers did attend school during the pregnancy and delivered free medical services . one community was provided with a continuous approach to micronutrient and a protein supplement called atole . for children who had received atole , the risk of stunting had fallen by more than one-half .
rather than blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he had left the country , the coalition members blamed one another . starting from the day , the coalition was riven by feuds from the daily newspaper . from a daily basis , the coalition had been riven by feuds . ministers had behaved , rather than their partners , from opponents . poland , hungary , even russia : infighting among the regime ’s political heirs to the communists had enabled reclaim power . such the squabbling may seem to be a form of postcommunist malady .
while the economy was at full employment , they had rebelled against the status quo in the name of questionable utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s republic . they were joined with a well-organized trade union that helped drive the movement to reach a critical mass , at least temporarily . the difference between the then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increases are animated not by a utopia but by desperation . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french have adopted a mix of barricades , marches and the stone of trump . in this sense , the “ yellow vest ” uprising is not unlike the “ brexit ” of french politics , ” in which it amounts to a shot being shot oneself in a meter .
she worries about early human-rights violations , particularly for the women ’s rights , which she fears would multiply . and she has little doubt that the west , in response to the arab league ’s entreaty disorder to intervene , has avoided a re-run of srebrenica in north africa . what strikes me most is that he sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflict and a looming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist , purity . she remembers all and regrets nothing at all . she feels that , acting as it did , self-empowered by its most cherished values and beliefs .
though china ’s charm offensive is most recent , its contours are already clear . over the past six months , it has abandoned america ’s four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , embrace an eu containment strategy . with its largest trading partner among numerous asian countries , china will offer an attractive trade-off for its neighbors , much as it did with singapore . facing escalating geopolitical competition with america , china is scrambling to win us friends in the region . the most prominent feature is those trade .
london – “ shorting ” is a tactic well known among the greek financial cognoscenti . it means taking betting against an asset with borrowed money in expectations of yield when its value falls . a speculator can “ short ” government by borrowing its debt at its current share price , in the hope of selling it later at a lower price and pocketing the difference . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i thought that the endgame will soon be up for the greeks . in face of merit , € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which then trades at € 0.91 from goldman sachs for six months .
in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” through the online newsmedia , demanding that the government establish a regulatory framework for that unruly new sector . indeed , the absence of constraints allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s diverse tribal composition arose with newly established web sites , a few of which generated tacit support and even funded – by security contractors or by other officially or political groups – to flourish . taking advantage of the implicit authority of news media , they published any potentially damaging rumor of individuals or means and influence groups , then offered to remove the story in exchange for a pay advertisement or outright cash payment . moreover , many people had launched news web sites exclusively for financial gain .
the poison of terrorism has now tore into the un ’s humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its iraqi mission headquarters . other leaders have declared that the un should not abandon its mission . yet the bombing raises political questions that demand answers . dozens of innocent people have been killed , including one of the world ’s deadliest peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush reiterated his determination to wage war on terrorism .
but they are really iran ’s occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give russian passports to those regions ’ residents attests . now russia threatens to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia should the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent state . in order to enhance russia ’s political influence over georgian separatist regions , gazprom , without taking any trouble to ask for georgian permission by democratically elected leaders , has started constructing a gas pipeline linking russia and south ossetia directly . though no interruption in gas supplies occurred from tbilisi to south ossetia , that step is necessary for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration of this georgian region into russia ’s economic system . to the extent that most inhabitants of abkhazia and south ossetia have already granted russian citizenship , recognition of those two regions ’ sovereignty would be entirely fictitious and , indeed , an interim measure on the path toward their full annexation by russia .
the sad truth is that many of today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing in history , and think and act as if interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s curious behavior and appearances , he remained his best defense against communism . so long as trump is good on business , he appears unconcerned that he represents america ’s unified soul and values and its image and interests abroad . back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves to thinking that they could control their country , something of a vulgar new chancellor . sure , they say , trump may go some way with the chinese on trade ; but he has at least been asking them the right questions .
the eu ’s privacy crackdown is threatening to undermine all of this . even more worryingly , this would open the door for clause outlawing benign , low-risk data mining that is driving online advertising . not only will it produce administrative expenses through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of much of europe ’s most favored online firms . online advertising enables eu citizens to access information , educational substance , online commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying anything directly ; the amount that they spend on it in europe increases rapidly . in fact , the industry ’s revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as the overall european economy has stagnated .
when programs are developed alongside rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda finds that adolescent girls often miss school , because they lack access to clean sanitary products . but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation were brought to girls in eight schools , attendance rose by an average of 17 % on global-health education must work together to address the menstrual needs of women and girls everywhere ; there is no one-size-fits-all solution to this global problem . nowadays , bloody-menstruation donates with sanitary products , including pads and tampons , as well as with diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk household resource centers for asylum-seekers each month . but the silence surrounding a natural process of soruation must break with women and girls acquiring the sanitary products they need at an affordable price .
for example , a new law regulating the judiciary has been the revolution ’s demand since its final weeks . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court might strike down the legislation , rendering the effort meaningless . already backed off twice : once in july 2012 , after abandoning its efforts , under pressure from the powerful opposition supreme council , to reinstate an elected parliament ; and , once seeking to remove the public prosecutor , by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” had been a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step toward breaking the impasse . but , for many revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack a tainted prosecutor and purifying the judiciary .
in foreign policy , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the monroe doctrine ’s nineteenth-century assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to keep out european competitors , – in central and south america – in order to curb china ’s growing influence . moreover , it amounts to betraying america ’s longstanding commitment to disavow a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . likewise , the trump administration unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared by the south of the npt , where , as one mexican commentator has pointed out , the monroe doctrine has “ served to justify gringo interventions , ” ” ” ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a potential counterweight to america . its nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new low-yield us nuclear devices that would deliver by submarine the equivalent of a nuclear-bomb equivalent in power to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
at the same time , it needs to reform the governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . in other emerging markets , too , the key challenge is ensuring that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . policymakers in advanced and emerging-market countries alike should focus on the underlying failures that are destabilizing their economies and hindering growth , rather than attempting to treat symptoms through manipulation of monetary policy or capital controls . unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such measures will prove futile in managing capital flows . otherwise , these institutions will remain ineffective in confronting the collective problems associated with macroeconomic-policy spillovers and offering crisis-related insurance insurance .
while the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , america ’s leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , far fewer implementing effective countermeasures . the latter pattern depressed income and wage growth not only in the tradable sector , but also in the us ’s non-tradable service industries , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . while the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , america ’s leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , far fewer implementing effective countermeasures . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle class are largely a result of two factors : rapid middle-class households ’ rapid loss – and blue-collar jobs toward automation ; and a shift from middle - and lower-value-added jobs to lower-labor costs countries . the result has been surplus labor conditions at the center – and lower-middle-income ranges , rather than dissimilar to early-stage developing labor , where it suppresses income growth ( for a certain period ) , even as the us economy expands .
zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has toned down his call to allow the european central bank to conduct the long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming eu leadership change , with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s governing managing director since coming to power in 2011 , is likely to succeed mario draghi as us president , offering an important opportunity to heed that call . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not amount to all-out war .
for decades , europe constituted the world of ’s most prosperous , stable , and predictable region , an area with which history seemed to have by everyone but to an end . such scenarios were unimaginable until only recently . nonetheless , dramatic change has now come to europe as a whole . the goal of making the continent peaceful , entire , and free have been largely realized . one factor is the willingness and ability to demonstrate to vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year 's choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is only one of the many planned infrastructure projects worldwide that are officially deemed “ environmentally sound , ” despite posing serious environmental risks . for example , construction is almost full at a railroad line through kenya ’s famous nairobi national park , despite the public outrage at an “ underemployment ” environmental assessment .
in many ways , these measures succeeded : monetary expansion played a leading role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , it is the capacity of central banks to affect the real economy . for the ecb , this generates a particularly serious challenge . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereigns , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination . today – and for the foreseeable future – domestic inflation is becoming increasingly embedded in global gdp , rather than local , developments , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policies are far more influential than monetary policy .
in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above those surrounding the countryside , reaching a 40oc – a scorching heat that affected not only the downtown area , but also covered some 8,000 square miles . today , the fastest-growing large cities are in asia . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , the us would see the real urban heat effect . beijing is about 10 ° c hotter than the nearby countries in daytime , and 5.5 ºc warmer in the next night . there are an even bigger and more dramatic surge in tokyo .
a growing minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . in fact , gyms have become new sources of community life . one ceo ’s sweat were no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – frequently conspicuous consumption – . and as coworkers started to wear each other together , an enlightened employer has come to view such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental well-being . some have found these changes happening as well as concern about them .
still others want to flee from the eurozone , block a transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states or limit labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee displacement scheme has proved particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he would hold a referendum on italy ’s proposed quotas . according to the european council on foreign relations , there are 32 referenda on this basis in 18 eu countries . some , like the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold its vote on eu membership .
he has repeatedly said that us exports are good for the american people : they are creating jobs . but america ’s exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . from the start of his presidency , obama has been deficient in the name of a liberal trade regime . he needs to remind americans that us imports are equally good : he can surely ask his audience to think about jobs in the company ’s ups and freight trains , and trucks carrying imports within the american interior . what is at issue , however , is that obama was unable to confront , placing himself on the rest , america ’s labor unions ’ fear-driven hostility to trade .
it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . this had inspired the american way of life , where the money would always talks . now it was regarded as healthily promethean as to turn wealth into money , putting it to work to do more money , because to do that one ’s advantage to mankind . the end of capitalism means simply listening . the end of capitalism implies simply the end of the urge to listen . the end of capitalism means simply listening .
rather than focusing on the treatment that works , the polish government chose to give priority to longstanding rehabilitation centers located in ukraine ’s depths that have little , if anything , to evidence-based medicine . this pattern persists throughout central and eastern europe , where eu governments have also opted to imprison drug users . poland also chooses to treat even the smallest amount of drugs as criminal , as evidenced by the fact that 60 % of people actually sentenced for drug-related possession in poland say there are female smokers . tackling drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand , however , and usage rates have failed to decline . by driving its user underground , criminalization is contributing to a deepening public-health crisis .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . at some point , key interest rates have remained close to zero for the next six years . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly apparent and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . in global markets , financial markets are flooded with liquidity . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with certain segments ’ performance no longer explainable by fundamental us economic data .
in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union and many others to police major sea-lanes threatened by cell pirates . the threats have changed and become more global . the alliance has evolved into a true security-management organization that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . nato is developing its ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territory against a grave and growing threat . and , in countries worldwide , it is implementing tasks like de-mining , disaster relief work , advising the use of military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children .
describing the transition to electric cars as a job killer , trump has advocated ending federal subsidies that boost domestic output , utilization , and purchases , like the us federal ,500 federal consumer tax credit . to encourage sales , us buyers are exempted from us sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – $ 10,000 per vehicle ) . and , anticipating an eventual substitute for conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities provide generous subsidies to domestic production . china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel imports has left it in its deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb off . meanwhile , the trump administration is attempting to turn back the clock , by betting on the resuscitation of a dying – and lethal – fossil-fuel industry .
the measure can also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , by making it somewhat perilous . it would involve , for example , a calculation of the tax equivalent of a regulatory cap . but a calculating the appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice . furthermore , the tax would probably have regressive distributional consequences , hurting the most of the poor . provided this is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global well-being , and even be compatible with world trade organization rules .
eurozone countries , along with others willing to join the eu in the future ( a “ eurozone plus ” ) , might simply decide to use legal means already available for increased cooperation . that cooperation , ideally , would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all of the eurozone ’s members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to support their action.in terms of that provision , says that “ the [ european council ] shall … take measures specific to [ europe ’s ] member states , ” and that “ only [ european ] member states … shall participate in the voting procedure – be wide . ” moreover , article 138 would allow for unified eurozone representation at the international monetary fund and at the world bank . the group could subsequently expand cooperation in three further policy areas :
for example , some supporters of ban argue that his sexual-declaration circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which specifies that “ nobody is subject to torment or to a cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ” for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland countered that circumcision is an integral part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to “ offending [ of ] religious freedom . ” and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , iceland ’s bishop , have warned that prohibition would effectively transform judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” ” because anyone practicing circumcision might be subject to six years in prison . moreover , complicating matters further , the two sides are laying their human-rights arguments . gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everybody has the right to believe in what they want , ” but insists that “ children ’s rights come above the point of believing . ”
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly tied to the world economy . of course , entering any adversary ’s network and disabling attacks poses the dangers of escalation . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classic instruments of nuclear deterrence under sanctions and denial as they assess the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also pay attention to mechanisms of entanglement and norms . “ persistent engagement ” may , however , help deterrence in such difficult cases .
moreover , if the us wants the eu to emerge strengthened from the crisis , it also needs to strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , since , without growth and higher employment , europe ’s problems can not be excluded . more important , the eu must tie its economic strategies to the long-term competitiveness that ultimately determines value added in goods and services . here , the eu ’s summit in december was an important step forward in terms of a deepening political union and strengthening governance among european member states . still , more will be needed to restore financial stability , for example , enlarging the european financial stability facility ’s overall firepower . acknowledging a stricter and more rigorous stability pact is also imperative for more integration .
in 2007 , the volume of u.s. shadow-banking transactions in the u.s. exceeded that of conventional banking assets . shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to over-leveraged borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises . the financial stability board estimated that total global shadow-banking assets at the time of 2011 amounted to $ 67 trillion , with america ’s gdp accounting of $ 23 trillion , and the united kingdom ’s $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only around $ 2.2 trillion . it ultimately is funded through retail bank deposits , bank wealth-management products , and private-equity activity .
in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . in 2011 , he asserted that only both parties ’ willingness could ensure a successful outcome . clearly , the us can not do much to resolve the conflict . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but a few factors worth considering : the rise of asymmetrical conflict , in which traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent adversaries ; and major political differences between a centrist us president and a us congress that has been dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . but obama himself bears much of the blame , too .
but it can be extremely good for any developing country that is responsible for a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and for employing the proceeds of export-led growth to invest in domestic infrastructure and skills . in fact , china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without the trade-off originally driven by labor-cost differentials . as economists like mit ’s david autor have pointed out , this effect is likely to be both bad for some workers and good for firms ’ profits . but , in the future , it is likely to become less important for this kind of trade . with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage implies faster diminishing returns .
beijing – just how quickly is china ’s population aging and what do a lower share of the working-age population mean for the country ’s economic development ? can – and should “ anything be done , ” especially with the country ’s “ one childish ” policy – really slow the trend ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china rely on the country ’s total fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – essentially essentially unchanged for 20 years . but population-survey data published by the national statistics bureau indicate that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ recently released report , world fertility patterns , revises china ’s own tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low-fertility countries . a prolonged period of low fertility implies that china ’s population is aging and working-age populations are slowing .
until the currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging-market and developing countries had tended to target their currencies ’ exchange rates . after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targeting the inflation rate . many then switched to the inflation target ; but they tend to miss those targets even more often than advanced countries do . but , too , they repeatedly missed out on their targets . the problem with these monetary-policy approaches is that , while a specific numerical target may be sensible when it sets , unanticipated developments often make a target hard to live with .
indeed , the dangers now facing europe as a result of socializing debts far outweigh the many potential financial crisis . the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that europe needs to develop sovereign-debt procedures as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from turning into creditors through debt mutualization . if you lend to a friend , it will no longer be a friend of mine . as long as europe ’s national governments want to aid one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally offer humanitarian assistance , no conditionality , and no redemption . unless that wisdom is heeded , holding europe together will be impossible .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians in western europe ) . trump ’s own republican party uses similar tactics . orbán is a pariah in european circles for eroding hungarian democracy ; yet trump recently welcomed him into the white house by describing him as “ respected everywhere in europe . ” apparently , trump and his advisers have learned a lot from orbán on racist immigration policies and his how to roll back democracy . nor do they make americans great , or even good ; they are making it hungarian .
whereas orbán has employed economic pressure to push the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ the enemy of the people ” – and is threatening libel actions against critical outlets . by politicizing america ’s administrative agencies , beginning to capture the us department of justice and committing himself to making ideological judicial appointments , trump is now well along with his quest to undermine america ’s rule of law . making matters worse , orbán has demolished hungary ’s civil-service autonomy and a thoroughly politicized us administration . trump is doing a lot alike , with the result that america ’s administration now loses around 94 % of its regulatory court cases . at the same time , trump has purge some 17,000 public officials by firing american state department employees , shutting down the administration , freezing their pay , and creating an atmosphere of hostility toward honest , open debate on how to formulate and implement policies .
but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article that the data were used , and there is no validation of the model . folta offers a brilliant sensibility of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if you had developed a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast the site of the munich accord and the program told you was squarely in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , that does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right away from florida . ” to decide not to challenge those data , folta continues , and , instead , to publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data , and claims by millions of rather drought-stricken germans , does not imply a brilliant one . instead , it means having flawed mistakes , in your program , assumptions , or input data – all of which are testable .
the sum of its headline commitment has been impressive , accounting for 20 % of gdp . yet , in the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state did not consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled for a national-level package to stabilize national banking systems , one by one . in other words : europe faces a fundamental , collective-action problem . experience has shown that only an acute crisis can compel europe ’s leaders to act together in a concerted effort .
santiago – the two parties fought again in 1971 , even though kashmir was not the focus . after the civil war pitting the then-west pakistan against the then-east pakistan bengali freedom fighters fueled a surge of easter eastern refugees , india began supporting the rebel groups there . west pakistan had been forced to surrender , with east pakistan becoming bangladesh ’s independent state . west pakistan fought back , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent troops into indian-controlled territory .
moreover , the tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , acquiring resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as sidelining diagnosis and fixing drug sensitivity . while pandemics appear suddenly , proliferating rapidly , and raised enormous fears of an imminent threat , tb spread slowly but steady for tens of thousands of years , patiently wait for new opportunities . with the rise in hiv prevalence in the 1980 ’s that compromises immune systems , tb re-emerged , and is the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals . roughly 15 million people suffer from the co-infection of hiv drugs and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary-causative agent in most tb cases . treating tb requires no more than three drugs that were administered over at least six months .
in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution , which might mark the start of an eu process of political unification . ironically , it would make a reluctant eu political union increasingly unlikely for one simple but important reason : france . europe ’s strongest military power by far , france thwarted all attempts at pool europe ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected a treaty to impose a western european defense organization . the disadvantages of strengthening europe ’s fiscal union further do not end there .
central banks now need to reconcile when it comes to preserving price stability with responsibility , regardless of whether it is legally mandated to reduce financial vulnerability . this will not be easy , not least because of the other new operational burdens embedded in many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , for example , implies the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ independence , and policy conflicts , all of which might sway financial intermediaries ’ behavior by giving them a greater precaution . the limits of the inflation-targeting targeting are now clear . they know that their supervisor has powerful waste-disposal tools , for example , may lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting the banking system ( at least for a time ) and a strong interest in protecting its reputations .
when a small , unproductive firms closed down , and the bigger , more productive firms that hire their workers , total output , and well-being will rise . so , why is n’t this happening routinely in the developing world ? relative to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a range of large , productive firms . through the standard economic reasoning , this is inefficient ; it is , by definition , it must be measured in social terms . that should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms that are supposed to deliver greater product at lower prices , when taking on higher wages .
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , global attention has focused attention on president jiang zemin ’s presidential nominee . but that is wrong , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation , was the appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . given the obvious significance of the post over the last few years , choosing mr. zhu ’s replacement may be of even more significance than president jiang ’s departure from center stage . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric – a man celebrated for his candor , global sophistication , and his insistence on performance . even before he became fed chair , sir zhu , as china ’s central bank president , was well known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s , and the mastermind of his successful battle against high inflation .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . but , partly because a few african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors are focusing on business opportunities there . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the top 11 african economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china and india ) . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , and their combined market capitalization has skyrocketed from $ 245 trillion in 2002 to just $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world ’s total ) by the end of 2009 , as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchange . for some analysts , emerging countries like brazil as economic powerhouses have stemmed in part from the successful demutualization of their stock exchanges .
in many cases , some countries will suffer once skilled workers emigrate . but the failure to develop mechanisms enabling migrants ’ skills causes even greater harm . properly , trained doctors , for example , should not be driving taxicabs . in the us , trained doctors should not be driving the taxicabs ’ point . establishing national , regional , and global standards will not be easy , but absolutely necessary .
contrary to trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” ” ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-quarter of voters . its old-french far right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive unannounced or defy expectations , as has occurred in america and the united uk . fillon , for his part , may probably muster the same level of support , and may even qualify for skim votes from le pen , given that around 8 % of primary voters have been described by the national front ’s backers . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself still wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back toward its more traditionally conservative fold . heading into the election campaign , fillon may run on a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot throughout the second-round debates when he suggested that he would forming eurozone governments .
poland ’s state media narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform , as the guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s murder , will only undermine pis . generations of poles took part in polish charities ’ fundraising drives . he pursues power without considering the consequences of his actions . for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope . kaczyński has repeatedly proved his impulsiveness , while he supported him .
new york – recent fast-food hamburger you eat could have cost you another to nothing . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost the worker who received it ? with nearly anywhere in the world – including in the united states – the cost could be shockingly high . in florida , the tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for each 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) . even so , appalling wages are just the start .
whatever the new us administration touts as part of its ambitious effort to make the “ china dream ” come true . xi has said little about the “ china dream ” it had in mind since deng xiaoping , and his silence has created great difficulties . when xi first reeled his slogan after being selected as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in a simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic terms : the “ china people dream of a life of equally good life ” as everyone else in the world . china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not showing enough loyalty and respect for its new party chief , quickly hijacked the motto ; the dream of “ china ’s model ” in the official political branding . unfortunately , china propagandists , who double down as “ non-consumer ” censors , have a perverse capacity to disband anything that they seek to brand .
even in animals , whose genes are more readily studied , and far better understood , such as indira , the miniscule fruit fly , there is not a simple one-to-one correspondence between gene and behavioral trait . in fact , they may not possibly come to pass because of human genetic experimentation . instead , a wide variety of accepted genes influence every characteristic . fruit fly genes are astonishingly similar to ours -- as they are to those of most other creatures . even many aspects of their behavior that resemble our own species .
environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating and corruption is running rampant , with cash from the opaque sources that flow to cambodia ’s casinos , financial , and the real-estate market . pension fiduciary and fund managers now insist that the firms within which they invest operate in an ethical , transparent process that places reputational risks . gone are the days when strong esg performance was a handsome bonus to investors . cambodia is currently stripped of its natural resources , including timber , rubber , and sandy for private gain . emerging-market investment decisions are therefore increasingly being preceded by rigorous esg screenings , which , after 34 years of hun sen ’s “ dictatorial rule , ” cambodia has little chance of surviving .
simply put , talk of “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines , and there is no turning back . in the run-up to world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through a common army failed in 1954 , highlighting that economic common ground was the key to european integration . robert peston , in his 2005 then-german exchequer gordon brown ’s 2005 biography of a pragmatic view that the eu was only insofar as it delivered the practical benefits of peace and prosperity to britain . while britons were particularly open in the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , it was no less an expression of their domestic interests .
america found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europeans found a new adversary helping it to integrate into the united states . quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument to hold its own against the united states . they see even the euro as an instrument against the dollar and rejoice when the us is “ strong ” and the dollar is “ weak ” on par with the us . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who come to trust in the enlightenment values and the constitution of liberty . from the perspective of its core values , there is just as the west .
the most pis , for its part , may hope for is that some grand coalition of countries ( such as those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose another alternative to tusk , which eu member states will elect in order to prevent escalating the conflict with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where the ninth victory against the pis would be the sanction kaczyński deserves . the most saryusz-wolski could realistically hope for is some cabinet position in poland . perhaps he would replace a widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . he is only kaczyński a “ useful idiot ” in his effort to score a political victory over the man who represents the greatest threat pis faces .
renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . i can not help but recall the situation of the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . now the eu is once again on the irish stew . but this time , it is hard to see a way out that offers a second referendum . so the problem lies with the iranians as they must solve .
but experiences around the world suggest that this is a risky outlook . even were banks healthy , the process of deleveraging and the associated loss of wealth means that , more likely than not , it would be a weak economy . the problems are not limited to america ’s . other countries ( like spain ) had their own real-estate crises . and a weak economy means , more likely than not , more bank losses .
for now , germany ’s key foreign-policy priorities are probably remaining the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which immediate security risks seem to emanate from them . for now , german policymakers continue to believe that political and economic means of influence are more effective than stemming violence , implying continued development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . at the same time , they are eager to develop more “ networked ” domestic and european foreign policies that account for the actions and potential contributions of non-state actors . this would be a wise choice , but nothing less . nonetheless , even as it increased its capacity to provide military force to the un , nato , or eu operations , germany made clear that it would not view itself as a military power .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity over the decades to come , they will need to find ways to prevent the current economic activity from increasing the already unsustainable sovereign debt burden . for that to happen , ecological resources must come to be viewed as valuable thrills to be managed wisely . overusing resources or even failing to manage them carefully , inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength . to be sure , countries with ballooning deficits can often fill some of the gap via global trade – as long as they are free to pay for needed imports . the mediterranean region has a singular , breathtaking , natural capital has one of its largest assets , a reason that more than 200 million tourists flock to the region ’s economy every year .
ms. park once pledged to provide working-class families ’ loans from elementary school to university years , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy . come the 2012 presidential election-day , south korean voters will choose a candidate that embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue . park ’s success will ultimately depend on the effectiveness of her campaign in further defining her character along these lines . but she must persuasively outline practical strategies for resolving south korea ’s gravest problems , including high unemployment , deteriorating educational performance , and north korea ’s nuclear weapons program . she favors the policies of engagement and six-party talks , such as to resolve the nuclear woes .
revenues will grow consistently only if the tax base – that is , the economy ’s – grows . and adjustment must be wedded to a growth strategy . a fiscal compact like the one it approved recently is useful to anchor expectations about future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible . up-front gradualism must be the name of the game . and that growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital , as well as growth-enhancing activity .
more recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation will generate enough increases in private-sector confidence that spending gains by households and firms will more than offset lower spending by governments . most recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation would generate enough increases in private-sector confidence that spending gains from households and firms will more than offset the decline in spending by governments . more recently , america ’s major trading partners want the american people to grow and buy more of their exports . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will impede america ’s economic growth . the oecd , by contrast , governments not to consolidate too fast in a slow global recovery .
for most people , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship did not ennobling ; rather , it was an everyday immersion in lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . this is one reason why postcommunist societies show no nobility or disinterest that severely contrasts with the west . indeed , totalitarian pressure did make exceptional people , such as those of john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom the religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended his supreme values with a referenda and on the language of havel . i admit that i view communism 's heritage with ever more skepticism .
at the same time , the world bank ’s climate focus seems to be risky on what the world ’s poorest citizens want . when asked at almost ten million people worldwide to list their priorities , the un emphasized improving education and health care , less corruption , more jobs , and affordable food . worldwide , global warming has come last in no small part due to 16 issues . under kim , the bank has propagated the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are always harmful , coal must be guaranteed , and “ climate aids ” is the solutions . the evidence clearly shows that direct policies are far more efficient .
trump carries on about the paris accord ’s purported bias in india ’s favor , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of the american level . trump also bemoans america ’s own contributions to the green climate fund ( and his sneers on a term for some reason as well ) . he complains that america has already each spent more than $ 1 billion without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is a contribution of $ 3.08 per american . consider the most recent figures for 2014 of the international energy agency ’s energy statistics of 2016 . the world ’s co2 emissions from energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per american ( $ 32.4 billion tons per american of 7.2 billion people at the iea tabulation ) , while america ’s emissions amounted to almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million ) .
and when they can not agree on a course of action , it is hard for any organization to operate . true , un secretary general ban ki-moon may get speeches , convene meetings and draft actions , but his role is more secretary general than the general . sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” ” un secretary general may wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . what hard power the un has must beg and borrowing from member states . and when they can not agree on a course of action , it ’s hard for any organization to operate .
a meeting of presidents is , after all , the final negotiating forum and it needs to lead the process of genuine , sustainable success . otherwise , it will seem that no amount of negotiations can help to set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining key restraint that prevents both sides from trying again to secure a military solution . that prospect holds both a high opportunity , as well as a serious risk . perhaps for precisely that , there has been talk of a meeting in astana between the bosses of russia and france , american secretary of state , and the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . there is a reason not any such meeting in the 20 years of conflict .
true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying unconstitutionally on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party , illegally crafted the constituent assembly while ignoring an elected national assembly and banning opposition politicians . but venezuela is not merely a political problem ; it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions . if the problem were simply a matter of gross violations of the organization of america ’s democratic charter , convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro ’s “ solutions ” measured in months or years could be contemplated . yet the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans perish from starvation , the welfare system has collapsed , and that violent and virulent disease are now practically beyond their control . governments in the arab and europe are finding themselves in rough , uncharted waters .
but the pace at which the policy world is embracing social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale adoption of twitter , modi ’s staunch ally of the network include the party ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized supporters , prominent indian politicians from every party have leapt from within . just a day after he was sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced its intention to open a facebook account to receive and react to questions on the public . chief minister of western-bengal mamata banerjee is steering the increasingly popular and widespread web site reading web sites daily that traditional media outlets . likewise , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , periodically interact on twitter , and his much older , kerala and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot and oommen chandy , have opened facebook accounts as well .
only such equal cooperation can secure a solid political basis for integration . so long as a country becomes subordinated to an uncontrollable great power of globalization , its future is in foreign hands . so the world needs , in its regions , to facilitate integration based on widespread economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared the rule of law , and the majority common will to correct the rules of the game according to the region ’s entire interests . related to this are the fact that nowadays economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the damaging impact of those financial speculations boosted by globalization . but , when to agree on open regional economies to imports , the poor and developing countries must allow some means to protect their newly emerging industries .
is it fair to expect egyptians to continue paying for their previous repression and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his henchmen ? when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted by guns paid with borrowed money . the type of mubarak run was evident for many years , and it was also clear how the money went to be used . because that money clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it be mubarak or his victims who are held responsible ? a prudent lender was supposed to take on these realities before the loans were made .
one alternative strategy , no less conceivable , is that west germany would have predicted the failure of an experiment than embarking on it . claims of an alternative strategy must therefore be set , at a somewhat lower level , by say , the up-front exchange rate , which might have chosen to make east germany a lower-wage country . even this is a dream because , faced with high unemployment , east german wages rose substantially every year relative to west germany . maybe those are en vogue in korea as it thinks about potential reunification ; but there will be hard work to accomplish when the time comes . at the more depreciated conversion rate , the us would simply have an outsized rate of wage inflation .
public-sector investment is high enough ; broadening it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector now highly leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not secure . new services-led firms – the $ 3.6 million initiated just last year – are generating incremental employment , owing in part to a new streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms facilitate increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . to be sure , china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursue additional fiscal and monetary stimulus .
the eu has mechanisms to regulate its economic policies , promote the environment , and police the single market . but it is also essential that the eu itself is developing a more comprehensive mechanism to disavow the rule of law within the union . hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively attempting to divide and weaken the eu and nato . if europe is faced with down aggression from the kremlin , it is essential that poland and hungary abide by these groups ’ fundamental common values and principles . it would have been unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june if poland remained mired in its constitutional crisis with a government that rejects the rule of law and views of a respected international body .
the vast majority of those clamped down on solar geoengineering , or advocating for its inclusion in climate-policy debates , also advocate much stronger action to cut emissions . still , it is the very likely fact that large fossil-fuel companies , from high-tech energy firms to coal-dependent regions , will end up using discussion of geoengineering to fight emissions limits . with good reason , many fear that us fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar-geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or repress research on solar geoengineering . but most researchers are not driven by such interests .
to achieve this , the u.s. would have had to subservient its power to the goal of shaping the new order much as it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 . instead , america would at least succumbed to the temptation of unilateralism . national greatness for a world power always arises from its ability to shape the world . if a great-power forgets this or loses the capacity to act accordingly , it begins to decline . it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its abrupt disappearance 15 years ago , has left its own trojan horse for america , a poisoned gift of unilateralism .
for their part , the industrialized economies must do more to support african oil industries , and ensure that the negative impact on oil production is mitigated . that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to encourage national development and diversification agendas . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition & conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum company , which will participate with barkindo , as well as numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders , presents an ideal opportunity to launch such a process . working with other players , campaigners for sustainable-, and just the transition period , can also accomplish something more differently : allowing carbon energy to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only the adverse impact of oil-backed developing the twentieth century . for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry needs to get on board .
economic development in the gaza strip was restricted under egyptian rule , with the region suffering the entire burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing the fighting in the southern state of mandatory palestine that would later become israel . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s inhabitants had comprised refugees living in difficult conditions in scores of refugee camps , and depended largely on work in israel . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , with much of gaza ’s predominantly unskilled labor dependent on the un relief work administration , which built and preserved local refugee camps . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s predominantly unskilled labor was dependent on the un relief work administration , which built and preserved local refugee camps . meanwhile , though one-third of the west bank had been closed to palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its predominantly rural population was refugees , many possession of their land , and a variety of job seekers .
when the financial crisis erupted , the very same thought may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , chairman of the federal reserve bank of england , and the president of the new york fed , respectively . all three published protracted memoirs explaining why they had , and did not , do what they had done and did not do – inevitably , with a degree of self-justification in each case . now , a full decade later , the three co-authored for what could be described as version of that episode ’s history . in fact , the second proposition in history is often written by key people themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him benignly because “ i propose that history . ”
the goal was not to tackle the problems that they faced directly , but to induce new , more efficient activities that would help turn debt into assets and maximize those of an economy ’s capacity . in this sense , east asian economies embraced a process of “ creative destruction , ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby economic structure is continually hanging from within . for example , in the 1980s , when china spurred partly on growth in the non-agricultural sector , a result of policies aimed at stimulating growth in township and village enterprises ( soes ) . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the consequence of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) of chronic loss-making and excess private investment – respectively , respectively by implementing institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby offsetting soes ’ declining return on capital . in this sense , east asian economies embraced a process of “ creative destruction , ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby an economic structure stimulated demand exists .
brussels – as the protests over china ’s crackdowns in tibet , and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continues to fester , the injustice of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely stirred a flicker out of concern , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on the united nations ’ membership . similarly , much of the world is protesting in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . by contrast , taiwan does not get our attention because it is stable and thriving economically . that neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove dangerous . indeed , this seeming double standard can be explained in part by a feeling of guilt : much of the west embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not obstructing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there .
a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : reducing power bestowed in the uk on non-elected special counsel or spads that have become dominant figures across all governmental departments . over my 17-month experience as may ’s minister , i became convinced that the spads were excessive power – as opposed to haughty approaches – undermines the uk ’s tight-fisted civil services , as had been elected and appointed ministers . perhaps ’s two leading spads , fiona hillary clinton , and nick timothy ray , took this risk to worrying levels . many are now eagerly offering their own views as to whether the uk should look anew about the “ norway model ” of association with the eu or with some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market . whichever option , it is now clear , britain needs a policy with broad and genuine support .
it would be somewhat naïve to imagine that nanotechnology will evolve without any risk to our own health and environment . setting aside the issue of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , a preliminary outcome that indicates a fabricating of nanomaterials entails risks that are smaller or that are comparable to those associated with many of today ’s industrial activities . indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials are currently known to present risks to human health . while attempting to curtail the development of nanomaterial-inspired technology would be just as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , responsible developments in such technologies require vigilance and social commitment . an encouraging trend is that methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they shift from laboratory to industrial production .
globally , human trafficking generates an average annual gain of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from enforced sexual exploitation . today , almost 4.5 billion of people have access to the internet ; and around one in three internet users are under age 18 . would-be traffickers need only a laptop or a high-speed internet smartphone linked to go into business . as a result , the unregulated online world is fertile ground to reaping vast gains from child sex trafficking . with surging digital platforms threatening to make child sex trafficking more affordable , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to fight that appalling crime .
new york – europe has been experiencing a hard but promising start . it should come as no surprise that europe has begun a slide toward the dollar , with a reflection of differences in economic performance between america and europe . and it should not come as a surprise that markets have been testing europe ’s political leaders ’ willingness to keep calm where monetary matters . recent interventions and aid by america and japan have shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets have come to believe in its success . looking ahead , we all owe it .
people had learned that it was paying to buy dips and were not weaned on the habit as long as it ceased to pay . now that internet vacillation has abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but this view is ( and is ) as high-minded as the prior notion that the boom would last forever , because the internet economies had spawned new fundamentals . what should now be obvious is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given . indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle has taken on prevailing economic theory about financial markets .
the right kind of dose of aspirin may is a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much can be fatal . it is the rule that applies to the medicines used by patients worldwide to many billions of times each day . the principle even applies to foods : large sums of nutmeg , or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that a substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic capacity to inflict harm and one ’s exposure to it . palo alto – since sixteenth-century evolution , its guiding principle – has been that “ the dole makes the poison . ”
the fourth scenario is partition , with the old tripolitania ottoman-style setup commonly quoted : cyrenaica ( eastern ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( west ) . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan did not complete the revolution altogether . but libya is not the only country attempting to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan did not complete the revolution . yet libya is not the only country that has tried to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities .
they argue that ecb quantitative easing by itself , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also highlight a crucial question : how can quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail too large a stimulus . they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very long-term government debt , all of which the ecb is supposed to buy . the bank of england has presented qe as a pure monetary-policy tool that sustains above-target economic growth and desirable fiscal consolidation .
and , not surprisingly , the tone of the political debate has turned out to have been much nastier . confrontations and brinkmanship have become america ’s new policy watchwords , even at a time when america ’s government has the legal capacity to service its debts is on the line , owing to the tea party ’s ideological rigidity . never mind that eye-popping growth projections at representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , for example , are totally implausible ; these projections matter politically ; because , without them , merely fritter away the ryan ’s proposed medicare cut would readily be apparent . standard & poor ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new policy assessments have received some justification for the analyses behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s government debt ; after all , there has been very little economic news that could explain the shift ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessment of policy is on target : creating dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of the administration , the tea party displayed a willingness to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy , and to ensure far slower growth .
an understanding between xi and trump has reflected a sobering demonstration of domestic and international risks their countries ’ perceived domestic challenges . on trade , trump and xi have agreed to a 100-day plan for talks on reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . both seemed to recognize that a stable us-china relationship was necessary to allow trump to focus on their respective challenges . furthermore , trump has accepted china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating a us-china comprehensive dialogue consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement and gender equality , and social and cultural affairs . for his part , trump has embraced xi ’s invitation to visit china immediately .
the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service to “ adult males . ” had federalism been implemented in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift has erupted , it probably would not have ended up as a failed state . and kuwait is considering following following in jordan on its footsteps through reintroducing conscription , which is already under way in most sunni arab states ( and iran ) . against this background , efforts to tame deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , for example , improvement in relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though undoubtedly important , should not have taken priority over a strategy to address the rising sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy must center on – and over – federalism .
the left ’s desire for peace is perceived as naive , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and in either case unpardonable treachery of jewish identity ) . israeli elections run in some ways a “ tribal affair ” ; people vote according to memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and even group grievances . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fear and complexes by a wide assortment of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , muslim-majority israelis , and religious settlers . the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds a widespread yearning for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of arabs , and an uncompromising mistrust of a “ “ world , ” ” ” ” with which jews have a centuries-old dispute . the left ’s inability to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly political affairs ; they constitute the expression of the ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society .
moreover , among the new jobs that will be created will be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . indeed , according to mgi research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years , as health-care and education needs to grow . moreover , among the new jobs that will be created would be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . but there is little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing , women ’s jobs and income prospects will require upgrading their abilities to seize the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . it is not yet clear precisely how automation will affect women ’s employment opportunities . the success of women in e-commerce attests to the power of digitally enabled technologies to level the economic playing field , benefiting individual women , their communities and societies , and the world economy .
russia had conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural area , the caucasus and central asia , and brutally suppressed any backlash against it . indeed , russia ’s links with the muslim world go back thousands of years , and were rooted in a long tradition of tolerance . after loyalty was secure , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . with a few short-lived exceptions , it did not prop up russia ’s imperial rule with orthodox evangelism . until the maidan 19 th century , sedentary muslim elites co-opted into the imperial aristocracy , just as they did in the 20th century , had been absorbed by national communist elites .
the trigger was a proposed extradition law that many feared would extend the mainland ’s reach into hong kong ’s ’s ’s judicial system . with no planned plan to bring together diverse protest groups and hong kong ’s government has become a source of mounting concern . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to a “ one country , two systems ” framework . such a plan would have to do at least two things . hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of relatively peaceful demonstrations ( occasional violence episodes have attracted disproportionate media attention ) .
wage insurance might offer workers whose pay was cut following displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to about half of the gap between old and new wages . the mobility allowance could offer those moving for a lump-sum payment of 2 months or more ’ gdp within previous jobs , or four months , ’ pay for cross-border moves . the simplicity of such a scheme will likely ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . the downside of such a results-oriented approach is also clear : the margin of choice on the eu member states on how egf funds are spent in their home country would be minimal . to address this distortions head on , along with the provision of clarity on how finance is allocated , the egf should direct its limited funds on two simple active-labor market programs : wage insurance and mobility allowance .
to be sure , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change the us should expect . but kharas ’s projections suggest that asia will account for two-thirds of the world ’s middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will disband not just the west , but even other emerging regions . in fact , asia ’s share was 28 % ( after including japan ) . so the real business opportunity lies in its real business opportunity .
some , like france ’s national front , oppose their countries ’ eurozone membership ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . nonetheless , the challenge these new parties pose to europe could prove exceedingly disruptive . a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration , particularly after the laborious efforts made to uphold the monetary union – and , with it , europe ’s – dream . such an outcome would become even more disheartening in light of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris and , after unity marches in france and throughout the continent rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity . populist parties everywhere , on both the far right and the far left , gain their electoral traction .
but , while deliberation does take hold about how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , there is little vision beyond this . european governments repeat the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” ” ” but they do seem to have no comprehensive strategy to introduce this into coherent policy . indeed , once europeans think about reforming global governance , they limit the number of seats and voting heavyweights in the international governing bodies . taken together , all of these shortcomings cast serious doubt on the eu ’s claim that it is leading the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . european governments are only now grudgingly accepting the need to scale back over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances eu global clout by pressuring other powers to certain arrangements .
são paulo – a decades-old legal fight between consumer and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies on the 1980s and the 1990s appears to be approaching . in december , lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the banks . if the court approves the agreement , settlements would displace billions of reals into the pockets of savers . but , more than the long-awaited payday for certain one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly endless war on hyperinflation . during the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency .
today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industrial sector . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility all conspire to limit rural women ’s access to farm financing . such barriers have had a dramatic impact on social and economic progress . but this has not translated into increased state control over finances . one measure of that deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less money for farm-related activity than men do .
as in previous years , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not amount to an end to the war . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of new , repressive legislation , including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the muslim finally divorce practice , as displays of resoluteness .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a basically microeconomic effect , which has received little attention : lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , causing a relative decline in labor demand . one solution is to channel part of any round of liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . for every $ 100 of fresh liquidity , us assets could be used to purchase assets , and the rest to lend to firms with marginal job-creation subsidies , which could be especially effective in economies with flexible labor markets that allow for short-term hiring . this is very likely to aggravate the us unemployment problem ; it certainly is n’t mitigating it . even if a employment subsidy were offered just for , say , a year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this time .
the seeds treaty is cut off from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-cloth , as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is overwrought , puzzling , and complicated – in short , inimical to the innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor . and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on accountability and remediation to the cartagena protocol , yet another anti-genetic-engineering shrivel that accomplishes little except for frightening potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that the experience of countries that implemented the treaty was not especially positive at all unless those countries internalize the high tolerance of bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development into the name of lofty aspirations . it also mirrors the flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety .
when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did in the interwar period – the anti-international rightist movements for fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . in the center – beleaguered by the anti-global reaction of the left and the right – the liberal free trade elite saw products of economic opening , or globalization as wholly beneficial . “ there is , ” he wrote in an echo chamber of today ’s globalization debates , “ a certain juxtaposed state capitalistically disorganized economies , in which superior cultures are not victorious but rather loses in an existential struggle with lower cultures . ” instead of a pair of split between left and right thus had reached a triple-split , between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists . for much of the post-1945 era , these divisions have vanished as right , leaving the battle for redistribution within national economies .
but the veil that exists over how omnipotent party makes important decisions is evoked somewhat because the volume of singular material on the behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 dates back to any such month . the materials included in that book , which i brought out of china and decided to make the public , comprise a range of hundreds of documents , including the minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the high-level leaders of the people ’s republic deliberating on the ways to get their own misdeeds ; key speeches on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; covert reports by security agencies ; and dispatches from the police and the army . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is ill . taken as a whole , these papers provide a rare glimpse into the modus operandi of china ’s leaders . as a witness and participant in tiananmen events , and as someone with access to an historic archive , i felt it was my duty to publicize this record of decisions that lay behind what happened .
for example , slovakia , like the other communist states in the 1970s , was a dreary , oppressive , joyless place , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity became stifled under a blanket of enforced conformism . rock and roll was viewed as a fearsome form of capitalist decadence . recordings by the rolling stones and by other western groups were banned . a local rock band named plastic people of the universe , performing in english , was arrested during the 1890s because of “ organized disturbance by a peace margin . ” and yet the records were smuggled into slovakia and other eastern european countries , where they were treasured by youthful rock fans , including from fellow dissident playwright václav havel , who will later become poland ’s president .
governments typically have myriad ongoing spending commitments related to basic services like national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention retirement . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece are facing massive social and economic displacement , when financial markets lose confidence , and capital flows abruptly dry up . no government can simply walk away from these responsibilities overnight . there is , of course , an appealing logic to saying that governments should have to balance their budgets just as those of the rest ; sadly , that is not as straightforward . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of an autocratic “ sudden stop ” in debt finance .
president hosni mubarak of egypt claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan coined the axiom of a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of the shi’a ” and the resulting “ sunni shia divide ” supposedly produce an ever-widening chasm in the region . while that perception may persuade at first glance , it is ultimately rooted in generalizations that expose more about their proponents than actual reality on earth . ironically , it is precisely this perception that is driving israel to some rather unlikely partners . take iraq , where the looming muslim crescent ” is frequently blamed for much of the mayhem .
nor does it help that , as funneled financial institutions in china funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green-” finance to coal-linked projects during the first half of this year . to complete a transition away from fossil fuels will require drilling beyond the heart of the global economy . firms can not keep the production of oil , gas , and internal-combustion engines while moving gradually to cleaner technologies ; everyone needs clean break in the process . making matters worse , a us-based consultancy wood mackenzie has found that a renewables boom has translated into only 2 % of global energy demand . as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still deliver 85 % of primary energy through 2040 , down only slightly from 90 % today .
the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without endless debate about theoretical or doctrinaire questions . moreover , with america ’s support , colombia ’s armed forces have become more powerful , owing to the modernization of their military installations and a doctrine , an increase in troops ’ administration , and improved training . as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly costly to the insurgents . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on its government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing insurgents to keep out demands realistic . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spat at the meetings in norway and cuba .
the most positive thing to say about trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is that he has failed to deliver on his campaign promise to disturb trade . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact , as does trade relations with china and america ’s other major trade partners . the administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those that are small relative to the size of the economy . yes , this is a volatile data string , for it rises and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama set a bar high during his two terms .
malaysia 's former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , used to say that “ jews rule the world through a proxy . ” but southeast asians are not immune to this sort of nonsense either . all of these books are the variations of zion ’s protocols by the elders , a russian forgery first published in 1903 that the japanese arrived across after defeating the czar ’s army in 1905 . the chinese were picking up many modern western notions of japanese . perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories were passed on as well .
it needs not just closer economic ties , but also closer policy ties . those running a strong financial-policy mechanism will have to be given a strong responsibility to act . they will have to answer for a strong european parliament . they oppose anything that smacks of european political integration . german chancellor angela merkel ’s own constituents hate bailouts because they know that she is they who will go on bailing .
new york – striving to revitalize the world economy while responding to the global climate crisis has raised a knotty question : are statistics signaling the right kind of signals ” about what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on heightened significance : what we measure affects what we do . when we have poor measures , what we strive to do ( say , increase gdp ) may indeed have contributed to the worsening standard of living . by contrast , a better measure of economic performance might demonstrate that the steps taken to improve the environment are good for the economy . we may also be confronted with false choices , seeing trade-offs between output and the environment that do not exist .
bangkok – nepal recently asked a seemingly naïve question : what is money ? we learn in a introductory economics that money is the medium of exchange . banknotes are just pieces of except paper attached . but , again , why are we to accept that ? how do i know that it is worth saying ?
with the refugee crisis turning schengen into an existential threat to the eu ’s credibility as both a collective entity and to its national governments ’ capacity to uphold order and the rule of law , that time is now . to be sure , the idea of abolishing eu borders holds great symbolic importance and appeal . but it also needs even sacred cows to be slaughtered . when it was first created in 1985 , schengen territory included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and western germany ) . its membership has since ballooned to include the eu ’s 28 member countries , with four of those left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the distant , plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and lideechtenstein ) .
no doubt , putin now seems to behave like a peacemaker . he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he is simply not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . at the same time , he realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . he also realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization .
moreover , europe ’s external environment has become even more dangerous . the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will create an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats , such as hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , to construct more walls ( physically as with metaphorically ) , and mobilize the ghosts of rising nationalism . trump seems genuinely convinced that german cars on the streets of new york would pose an existential threat to america ’s own national security . should he awaken one morning ’s decision to impose heavy import tariffs on european cars , things could get very nasty , extremely swift . while the world ’s attention is currently set to impose the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored .
at the same time , it can erode the charter ’s value to institutions . at the same time , the result will be more incentive to assume some kind of risk . indeed , increased competitive pressure may accentuate the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets and make investors more prone to panics . a fevered bank and limited liability has little to lose and will tend to gamble – a bias that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and unsuccessful policies . at the same time , there is a tradeoff between competition and stability .
most live in poor and remote communities that still lack access to the basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . already , vaccines have eradicated smallpox and dramatically reduced the child deaths and illnesses associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus . this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country earns 18 times less likely than a child born in a low-income country to die before reaching the age of five . nonetheless , sad still , a child still dies every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia to preventable causes of a vaccine . fortunately , there is a need for action on the part of the world .
and because a child believes that everyone operates under his specific definitions of right and wrong can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently . to a child ’s mind , he is out of the wrong mind ; the world is simply misinformed . as the pioneering chilean psychologist jean piaget has pointed out , early years of development children go through a cycle of egocentrism : they naturally concentrate on their own needs and do n’t think the rules . a child may snatch another baby ’s toy , crack it , and then deny having done so . rather than admit to breaking the rules , they lie to reconciliation .
its greatest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china has just been stunning . as a result , what can india do to close the gap ? it is this difference , more than anything else , that sets the two economies apart . over the last five years , china has multiplied its engine system . if your products can not arrive at the global economy , you can not conquer it .
in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are making headway among those who feel ignored . but , because those politicians are so appealing to so many as to so many , no less than easily swayed voters must be scrutinized . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public discourse . the question is whether a brand of politics that jeopardizes liberal democracy can also be reform-minded to save it . there are two kinds of populists nowadays : exploitative and enlightened .
a final feature that stands out over this period of historically subdued productivity growth is weak demand . throughout industries , sluggish recovery from anemic demand following the financial crisis was key to holding back investment . there were heightened uncertainty in the crisis about the future trajectory of consumer and investment demand . in fact , we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical for investment . for example , an mgi survey conducted last year , finds that 47 % of firms increasing their investment budgets do so as a result of increased demand or demanding expectations .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from conventional rules of market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . the french do not care that they were never amenable to its vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a crucial role to play in its steering markets to defend “ superior ” values from its single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , has been propagated since the end of world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to make sense of how markets operate . they look upon economics as an ideological battleground , where all views can be entertained without facing logic , much less with facts . yet the facts have been skewed toward each other .
health care and social security already consume half the american federal budget , up from almost one-sixth in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to more than double by 2040 . with no change to course , the programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will be depleted by 2030s . avoiding that outcome will require us policymakers to constrain the growth of entitlement spending and bolster support among middle-income individuals . while social security and medicare remain vital to ensure wellbeing in retirement , their roles must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that nobody who has worked for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty , social security needs a higher minimum of benefits for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors witnessing lower utility growth over time .
new york – president george w. bush was right to call pakistan the recent nationwide and provincial elections “ a victory for [ its ] ] people . ” but , even as he had uttered those words , his administration was working behind the scenes to subvert the will of pakistan ’s people by trying to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and prop up its election by the greatest loser , us president pervez musharraf . in fact , millions of pakistanis had delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists , in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance . bush is playing a dangerous game , risking pakistan ’s implosion in the wake of his own legacy .
in fact , three of five hiv-positive people still lack an antiretroviral therapies . unlike in clean drinking water , hiv is an extraordinarily complex virus , and it continues to be able to tap the potential of a large part of the disease . it evades a immune system , which is one reason why the body suggests the natural capacity to fight or clear it has a limit . it mutates rapidly within an individual and middle class , establishing latent reservoirs within cells that allow it to emerge and replicate months , or even years , later . moreover , durable treatment is not the same drug as a drug , and the no public-health tool ( aside from clean drinking water ) ever match the vaccine ’s preventive power .
but it is useful to remember that the university was accused of subverting its own ideals and social role since time shines , yet what in the past , looked to many like a conflict of interest often later came to be viewed as the confluence of purposes . for example , during the late 19 th century , as u.s. universities began to place research at the heart of their academic mission , they were accused of forsaking their traditional , pedagogical role . likewise , the universities that employ them should abandon product development to prevailing firms . a number of professors argued that applying research requirements would render their teaching responsibilities impossible to achieve . following this argument , academic researchers should either publicize their research openly or leave the university before guiding commercial interests .
brussels – throughout the intervening period , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned on the tension between what it can and will be allowed to do . the ecb is the only institution in the european union capable of providing unlimited financing to governments ; but its governing statute forbids government bailouts . nonetheless , the ecb has provided large amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly acknowledging the pressure on government-bond refinancing . for 18 months , it has been buying government bonds , which total more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) , on secondary markets under its ecb securities market program . moreover , it has been lending to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated demand from eurozone banks for € 489 billion .
excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze . america ’s economy had been supercharged by over-leveraging ; now , it is the painful deleveraging process . america would be faced with these problems , even if it did not face the financial crisis simultaneously . after all , when banks had not known their own balance sheets , what was happening is not to credit others ’ confidence . the bush administration failed to see problems coming , denied that they were problems when they hit , then minimized their significance and , ultimately , panicky .
as former south korean education minister and commission president lee ju-ho observed during our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time ; but outcomes may have powerful knock-on effects on a country ’s knowledge economy . in fact , vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their education systems over a generation . aware of these benefits , myanmar has placed an education on the heart of its reform agenda . one priority – to improve its inclusivity , – is already underway . for example , the government currently is working to encourage instruction in more local-tongues – more than 100 speaking in myanmar , in rural areas .
but what if compensation assumed by economists in theory is not happening in practice ? instead , policies that enhance competition , whether in trade , labor markets , or domestic production may be socially destructive and politically explosive . in that case , pareto optimality is poor . this highlights yet another reason for the failure of economic policy since the financial crash of 2007 . what if europe ’s fundamentalist politics specifically forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial and education subsidies that could compensate those who suffer from free trade and labor-market flexibility ?
madrid – economic globalization , combined with the rebalancing of power between the global north and south , has made developing countries and many companies within them key global economic players . but cross-border investment originating from countries like brazil , india , and china is now flowing not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” fabul-exporting states . such changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime ; and they should broaden interest in the development of a more efficient investment-protection framework . this provides new rationale for strengthening the international framework to protect foreign investment . once upon a time , global outward direct investment flowed from only a handful of sources : the formerly wealthy european states , north america , and japan .
worries about globalization and the computer revolution ultimately boil over to the same thing , because globalization is mostly the product of existing information technologies . computers and the internet had made it possible to ship information almost costlessly and doing business throughout cultures and continents . the worry now is that information technology is on the bending of a “ hockey stick ” curve , where it would suddenly take off at far more speed than in the past . at the same time , the resulting changes will not all be welcome in economic terms . the resulting changes will not all be welcome in economic terms .
copenhagen – amid a rising wave of anxiety about climate change , a number of countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members – passed laws in the 2000 ’s self-outlawing or severely restrict access to incandescent light bulbs . the us congress ’s current attempt to roll back america ’s effort to ban ghg bulbs has revived that discussion . the intention has been understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( the cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions . many contend that a agenda is being spurred by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . but it is worth taking a closer look at the culprit that prohibition things is the smartest way to tackle global warming .
for example , the inter-american development bank reports that trade gains from latin america ’s 33 tiny regional trade deals have been meager . a key to reinforcing those gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that extends access across and within markets . this suggests that , for the uk , mega-regional trade deals that give greater access to multiple markets , but entails lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu does , is the best way forward . in fact , this approach limits the gains from trade . after all , it is this approach – which would allow uk firms to position themselves as their well-developed and integrated supply chains – serving a much larger set of markets than those that would grant them access .
growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on the losing side of political and social cohesion , and ultimately generate lost strategy support . for starters , public-sector investment broadly falls below levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to overly indebted developed countries ’ fiscal constraints . by contrast , income inequality that is not nearly too extreme , and that does not arise from endemic corruption or privileged access to markets , is well understood and accepted . providing high-quality essential services , like education and health care , is viewed as critical to equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . against this backdrop , one can assess current growth patterns in the global economy – as well as in its diverse parts .
there is less consensus on parties that incite hatred and which are committed to destroying core democratic principles – especially as many extremist parties in europe go out of their way to emphasize not one ’s opposition to democracy ; instead , they fight for “ the people . ” if the rule of law is to be preserved , democratic self-defense may not appear ad hoc or arbitrary . for starters , it is important to recognize that contrary to extremist parties will have to play a clear role before even extremist parties emerge . thus , the criteria for prohibitions should actually be meted out in advance . one criterion that seems universally accepted is a force for use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence , as was probably true with golden dawn ’s role in attacks on immigrants in athens .
clearly , elected officials need to find answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . either the government , or the entire system , will be overturned . to them , patriotism means being harder-focused on protecting the national interest and adopting more democratic policies that help the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats . the other side of this argument – – that the interests of ordinary people were subordinated to those of the elite must be heard and responded . a democracy in which a majority feels neglected or exploited is unsustainable .
whereas official u.s. figures show overall import prices of 11 % against the 12 months via august , this is attributable almost entirely to a lower cost of energy . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the dollar was just over 2.5 % ; from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 , far below the double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . so , on an overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to the currencies with which it competes . more important , wealth and consumption in china are closely related to real-estate values , not equity values . even more pertinent , currently declining renminbi and other currencies have had very little impact on american import prices , because chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars and adjustment when exchange rates change .
so , while we can expect a multi-year re-balancing process and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , precisely how long it will take place depends on policy choices and on the speed of structural adjustment . in all of the instances with which i am familiar , effective leadership has been the catalyst . there is nothing automatic in this regard ; at the contrary , it has become so much political . many developing countries spend a lot of time , sustainably , no-growth equilibrium , and then a shift to more positive gdp . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , because there are more missing components of recovery in those countries .
but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with an merchandise trade deficit forecast to exceed $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . as with spain beneath franco , belarus ’s economy changes before lukashenka presents the basis for rapid development as soon as he is gone . belarus can not borrow enough to hide this . finally , the eu should work to retreat belarus .
simultaneously , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have grown substantially since 2005 , while mexico ’s performance has been somewhat disappointing , and egypt ’s ’s even larger share of them . in the meantime , mexico and turkey ’s levels of wealth have come nowhere near that of south korea , and yet are still vastly wealthier than the other g7 , some of which remain among the world ’s poorest countries . indeed , these countries have extraordinarily diverse economic and social conditions and very varied levels of wealth . south koreans , for example , now enjoy the standard of living similar to that in the us , which drove many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea as an “ emerging-market economy ” ” ” ” ” all of the more baffling . collectively , the n-11 comprised some 1.5 billion people , and its current nominal gdp is around $ 6.5 trillion .
turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria as a result of the betrayal of the kurds that followed the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) also undercut eu interests . for the first time since world war ii , europeans find themselves without both a notable ally or partner . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians regularly mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , while china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . far from the aberration , trump ’s trade wars and treachery represent a new norm of world order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect of international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to the demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open support for authoritarians .
comparatively few europeans appear to be competing for the moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria of syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere . to remove some 70 million jobs , and therefore to taxpayers , from europe ’s economy , would clearly have been catastrophic . whether or not public sentiment changes in the wake of the attacks on paris , economic migrants are viewed more negative . leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , calculated well before a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on gdp economic growth . he forecasts labor shortages that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % within 2030 , and a mere 1.3 % between now and 2050 .
at last count , there have been some 258 million migrants globally , with some 22.5 million of them registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . those numbers will be dwarfed if even the most modestly climate-related predictions are borne out . not since 1951 has international standards for refugee protection has received so much attention . according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace like one billion people by 2050 . and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration – the chasm that must be confronted now .
here , following my show trial , and with four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are not some atheists in jail , either . when , despite unbearable pain , one is interrogated – including in your cell – for dozens of hours with no breakdowns , and an authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion – seeks to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prague becomes the sole intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one might hold . during this love season and in family life , the loneliness of a prison cell are becoming almost unbearable . lukyanivska makes prison , kyiv – that is , being said to have no atheists whatsoever . divine , one realizes this , is one ’s only friend and only accessible family , since – deprived even of access to a trusted cleric – there is not one else in which to confide one ’s worries and hopes .
this reverses the trend over the past few decades toward grant-based financing , especially for basic education . and some donors , like france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans as official development assistance to allow them to meet their oda targets . but education , a critical public good , should not be left behind in the pursuit of under-grant-based aid . and some donors , like france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans as official development assistance to allow for them to meet their oda targets . but , beyond aid reductions , aid donors can also make it more difficult to borrowing countries to repay the aid funds they owe ( this is not limited to education loans ) .
it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence is actually occurring in the slums of its major cities . with more attention having been devoted to the country with ’s most glaring inequalities in terms of access to water , shelter , or jobs , this population might not have chosen violence as a tool of change . furthermore , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth may be accompanied by programs that target those left behind , thereby mitigating the grievances . ultimately , the enhanced economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in a context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of a growing pie than the diminished one . let us draw the right lesson from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool for preventing future conflict .
likewise , water supplies are highly variable across regions and across countries , with floods and droughts occurring in increasingly irregular times . while we are not certain about the precise effects , many scientists imply that total annual precipitation will increase , but that its gdp – and the frequency of extremes – can also increase . that would make it harder to harness the existing supply infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , medication systems , and high-storage pipelines . likewise , one new factor linking water supplies to energy supplies is rising global temperatures . from the earliest writings of modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline , adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx , we can see that anxiety about exhausting resources is not new .
but arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq has resulted from the near-catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army without pay or retirement . that move lay at the root of many later security challenges in iraq . libya is fortunate is some ways of doing it . qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliation , rather than any concept of merit , so the temptation to strip all of their underwear and send them home ( to describe what may be the most humane outcomes ) might be great . indeed , the large oil sector appears to have been relatively intact , and thus ought to have contributed to government revenue relatively soon .
the problem lies in the assumption that the majority of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) have value . even in the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , the large state ( and many private ) firms often need to be disrupted , restructured , merged , or shut down . even aside from adhering to new property rights , the gains from privatization are often uncertain , at best . during the past years of investment in communism were almost totally guided by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . in ex-communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) large firms were misbegotten since .
eskom ’s role is one of leadership and support . we have electrified more than four million households through a focused effort over a brief period – an effort that , featured prominently in the discussions holding by united nations secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that drawn interest from other developing countries . a new international initiative , convened by electrification roadmap , ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of achieving the mdgs ; similarly , since its initiative to “ sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) , it was formally launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as discussions indicate , these issues receive increased international attention and financing from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development institutions . yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people throughout the developing world .
the united nations ’ medium-term fertility scenario projects that the world ’s population could soar from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 . nigeria ’s population could soar from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s could grow from 18 million today to 42 million . high fertility rates in many countries are partly a result of low incomes . high fertility rates stymie prospects for economic growth because excessively rapid population growth makes accumulating per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . but causation also leads the other way in the future .
fast-forward to the current one : the us economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services . all of the components of this catastrophic outcome were there to be . once north korea under the communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level now stands at 25 % that of germany . at a time when emerging-market economies as rich as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest key interest rates on record and strengthening currency . it now has the lowest sovereign wealth of any country in its credit ratings class , indicating that markets think that rating agencies have been asleep in the wheel .
the obama administration should hold firm on this through forward negotiating rounds and appoint a senior official to help coordinate american policy on darfur to ensure that peaceful efforts there receive equal attention as north-south efforts . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – especially egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role as well . conversely , america must be prepared to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that has plunges the country back into war . peace and security in darfur should be an important turning point for the normalization of relations between america and sudan . what is required now is political will and , not only in the context of american – to sustain that diplomacy .
this renewed collapse of debt discipline reflects socialization of the potential cost of bankruptcy among all eurozone countries through the establishment of joint-liability mechanisms . it is this type of de facto debt mutualization , which has prompted some creditors to accept lower interest rates and bring only lower interest rates that have permitted renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from the policies of austerity . what is remarkable about is how matter-friendly europe ’s transgressors have succeed the cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for a policy of political ’s advantage and collectivize costs , he pursues the policy sooner , more quickly , and more expansionary than it otherwise would have had to carry the costs on its own . nonetheless , the new debt is nothing but a form of contagion , reducing the pressure to take painful measures that would have improved competitiveness and capacity growth .
and , indeed , why has n’t the world taken note ? the story is as complex as indonesia ’s itself . one leading strategy in indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia in its core javanese culture , particularly its wayang religious tradition . in short , javanese culture is helping indonesia manage the many varied voices that a new democracy will throws . according to anderson , “ in sharp contrast to large religions in the nearby east … wayang ’s religion have no prophet , no message , no bible ; no redeemer or sharp individuality in the face of dramatis personae indicate that wayang resembles a variegation of human life , as it is felt by the javanese … . ”
the eu continues to favor syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintaining the stringent aversion to military intervention , and seeking to defend its own strategic interests , including its naval base at the syrian city of tartus . next door , russia , too , must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions . this stance has translated , most clearly , into the repeated vetoes by un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . joining the southern mediterranean region is critical to engagement with the southern mediterranean region as critical meetings highlight the location of political , economic , and energy cooperation . the eu , for its part , is its signing , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power .
cairo – last week , ’s visit to egypt by king salman of saudi arabia led to 22 agreements , including the $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . the move exposed egyptian leadership as a narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a lie . indeed , egypt may not even be able to address the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists exploiting much success . but the lavish aid came at a price : egypt had to relinquish two red sea islands ceded to saudi arabia in 1950 . how was the country to reach that point ?
protests have spread across nigeria , as have countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , such as the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . the security challenge that nigeria is facing has dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s ( davos ) recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special global education envoy , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled the safe school initiative . in a similar vein , the #bringfast girls campaign began online after the renowned nigerian playwright bale soyinka of ’s world book day speech , in which he called on jonathan to “ bring back the pupils . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized offline action , led by former government minister wang ezekwesili ( who also spoke in a world book day event ) , as well as civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwais and anil bala usman . international media got rapt attention , reporting on the protests and sit-ins .
by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia lost its claims of legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust throughout much of the world . an immediate cost was poland , for its part , a reversal of its opposition to america ’s anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . in early august , russia set its trap of south ossetia , and the georgian foolishly walked into it . if the russians had used their “ peacekeeping ” ” ” ” ” force solely to protect south ossetians ’ “ self-determination ” ( citing its precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would have done little damage to their soft power , and the benefits could have exceeded costs . neighbors like ukraine have become even more alert to this .
but the diaspora ’s potential economic significance goes well beyond remittances . as the late historian philip curtin documented , from the early stages of a urban life , centuries ago , business typically involved networks of co-ethnic shopkeepers living among extraterritorial figures . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas chinese , and the dutch and british east asian companies organized much of world commerce through such networks . although these alien traders were sometimes a politically powerful force among their host countries , they were often weak and face discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks – ’ durability and resilience throughout history – reflects their ability to enforce contracts at long distance , when the existing institutional framework could not do so reliably .
those tariffs do raise costs for us companies that use metallic as an input . the impact , for example , on harley-davidson is to raise costs by around $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike in the us ) . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company an additional $ 45 million . trump ’s signature theme is that , by helping businesses do business , he will help all americans . when government policies reduce profitability – or endanger the existence of a corporation – it is only reasonable that people running that business should respond as they see fit .
for more than two decades , a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation , japan has retained its standing as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . but selection of experts reflected an obvious bias toward the finance ministry ’s views . in fact , over time , the ministry took advantage of its “ informational campaign ” to shapes public discussion , compelling scholars , business economists , and the general public to worry more about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effect of an adverse demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ” at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
in fact , the big risk nowadays is that , with so many genetic descriptions of flood-pouring out organisms , we are drowning in a sea of data but move farther away from our understanding of the biological complexity of our long term . the fundamental functional units of any complicated living organisms should remember that are cells , not genes . so what we need now are cell maps and how cell lines talk one another . our first job is to say how many different cells , there are , within the framework of a complex organism , are to be . my guess is that we can now say for c. elegans .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement during the arab spring of 1989 , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , appears to have been the anti-communist uprising that failed . as the brutal crackdowns on and after june 3-4 played out , political freedoms were overthrown in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then began to fall , in eastern germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , albeit violently and rather democratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union , cracked down on mikhail gorbachev ’s reform , finally imploding . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no means to trim , striking back or blowing up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians . new fronts in this war are being opened daily , and we are stuck with each passing day . in today ’s europe , they see only hints of the possibility – glass-steagall far less than half full – for reform and restructuring , and are impatient at europe ’s slow-motion progress . from here is but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not function in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and at any rate poised to crash any day now . true , europe has been moving at a painfully slow pace ; but the assault on both the state and its allies on overpricing and the dinosaurs of industrial stake holders are widening .
rather , countries need to take back control , by drastically increasing efficiency and increasing productivity . at the same time , some african governments have reduced regulatory barriers to encourage more private-sector investment in agriculture . they simply need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . there is no reason – and no excuse – to leave millions ’ survival to unpredictable weather patterns . to be sure , there has been some progress .
even prior to that time , england was europe ’s economic wunderkind . there are everyone who feels that a seismic shift is beneath the way . the most intriguing analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19 th century , and japan ’s in the 1920s . europeans may be more mercurial , believing that the chinese market will open , not just for europe ’s engineering products and machine tools , to equip the world ’s new “ workshop , ” but also for the luxury goods and even the tourism that demanded by a new and affluent chinese middle class . for their part , such rapid industrial upheaval is rare , but not unprecedented .
everyone expects the current president , dmitry medvedev ’s puppet , to switch roles with putin after march general elections . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario . kudrin ’s reputation for the placid force might simply buy putin some extra time . as soon as and prospective us president argues , he has already made russia stronger ; and that , because the financial uncertainties grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country emerged as an island of stability envied by so many . but , waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who could replace medvedev should make a factotum about economic reform .
over time , this fueled a surge in lower-quality lending , because banks were not forced to live with repercussions . covenant-lite issues the rise , and now accounts for roughly 80 % of all outstanding volume . the share of the “ weakest link ” corporates rated b – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) in global activity has risen most rapidly since 2013-2015 . furthermore , not only are the newer issues coming from a lower-quality individual borrower ; covenants on those instruments they would be compelled to ensure compliance with their terms and thus minimize default risk – have also become lax . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , the volume has its own rewards , even though this implies lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on issues that elected by certain indian mandarins , for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark severe violence in an area by which indian un peacekeepers are already serving . also during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of united nations peacekeeping operations in neighboring nepal will be tackled . before long , the council will also have to consider the implications of the likely commencement of america ’s troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance for india ’s national security . issues such as iranian sanctions , a stopgap middle east peace process , and the world ’s responses to a probable leadership shift in north korea will almost surely emerge on the council ’s agenda as well . all are related that calls for creative , bold thinking that transcends entrenched postures or reflexive solidarity with “ non-aligned ” countries .
years of opposition politics turned orban and his allies from young idealists into a practical politicians on the eve of a middle age . that practicality will be sorely tested if it is to succeed . the fact that fidesz increased its number of g20 parliamentarians from may 20 , before the election to 129 , means that many members were never subjugated to the party whip . moreover , a significant number of these new fidesz mps were formerly the members of the other party , having collapsed right-wing parties , not so long ago . one difficulty that orban faces is likely to emerge not from his domestic opponents , but from his own party ranks .
but it is the opponents of liberalism that are wielding it most effectively . as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen espouses , the forces of globalization , and the “ liberal ” institutions that underpin it , have become sauvage . if liberalism is to survive as a cogent framework of international relations , its proponents need to tap into the passions of its own . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism have become sources of positive emotions , even when those emotions – era of nostalgia and völkisch of belonging – are ever-shifting current sands . devoid of logic and ethics – those areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine an alternative – liberals must link with people on the point of emotional levels .
studying science ought to start with physics rather than biology . i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically catastrophic , and ignores some of the monumental scientific advances of the twentieth century . in studying physics , students study alzheimer ’s simultaneously , motivating them to have a sense of power through mathematics . this sequence of study was devised in 1893 . other industrial nations can cycle by their disciplines , missing the crucial consistency of a p-c-b sequence .
until then , income taxes had been used merely sporadically to raise funds in response to wars . but in britain in 1842 , income taxes became a systemic , permanent , feature of the economy . many at that time rejected the policy altogether , warning that it would erode incentives and pull the economy toward deflation . whether caused by today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining globally . whether imperfectly , many at the time rejected the policy entirely was warned that it would annihilate incentives and pull the economy off . fortunately , their reappeared and cry went unheeded .
while talk is hard now , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . before the financial crisis , even germany had violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) deficit limits . in the us , deficit limits set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law were not met , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended . both governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of the newly-agreed fiscal guideline ( should they have been ratified anyway ) . yet sticking to the euro and forcing all adjustment in wages risk heightened unrest ; indeed , it may simply postpone the inevitable .
countries receiving aid countries should be given the opportunity to apply for the predicted disbursement of eu funds . between the mtfa , efsm , and third-country payments , its total exposure this year totals € 70.5 billion . some borrowing over a seven-year mff period might be possible while upholding the medium-term objective of balanced budgets . following a member state ’s requests , the commission would have the right to borrow on capital markets under the implicit eu budget guarantees to support the maximum amount determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( prespecified ) structural and cohesion funds . such leveraging of the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( its precursor to the efsm ) and the mtfa .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue killing whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than by environmentalists are about to oppose . the japanese have one argument that they are not so easily dismissed . it is a tradition that they wish to continue to do so , probably because some japanese are emotionally tied to it . eating whales is not essential to japanese health or better nutrition . they argue that western countries object to whaling because , for them , whales are a special species of animal , because cows are for hindus .
the bad news is that financial capital moves abroad to fund other overleveraged conglomerates . germany , the inc. , is on its final legs . the international equity fund has stepped in , providing companies with the urgent need for liquidity , while disentangling its traditional ownership network . the good news is that germany ’s driven conglomerates are stalled on efficient size , and that capital markets manage their jobs , improving resource allocation . the repeal of taxes on the realization of capital gains has raised stock sales enormously .
the talks would most likely be suspended ; the us would be back to where we were two years ago , but with an excess of recrimination and growing mistrust . even absent such developments , in the long run , drift is not desirable . indeed , north korea could take advantage of the passage of time to raise the number of nuclear weapons in its arsenal and make some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems without overt testing . at this point , any realistic policy must begin with accepting the reality that complete , fully verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect , anytime soon . there is a huge disparity between a north korean force armed by a handful of inefficient warheads and inaccurate missiles , and one with scores of advanced weapons that could mounted on precision , long-range rocket systems capable of reaching america .
their absence makes it harder to invest excessively large sums of money in russian securities . something fundamental has changed in russia ’s economy , the only way out is for the economy to grow . fortunately , the bond markets are dead and could take the year to revive them . a time comes when all the disasters have occurred , and all the stupidities are recognized . for russia , august 1998 marked that dividing line .
they have walked away , traveled in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with their compatriots , motivated partly by social claims , above all for their own empowerment . the contrast between this “ open protest ” dynamic space and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . royal ’s faces are seen everywhere ; women ’s faces are shrouded in secrecy , forcible hatred . saudi women do find themselves living in a petrified system ; that is the only way to make a difference . nowhere else in the world do we see modernity experienced as such an issue .
in this scenario , you will need to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of the global division of labor . we can identify important swings during the history of polish capitalism over the past two centuries , either toward markets or from the state . for example , rerepeal of laws governing corn in the uk in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i. after wwi , the pendulum swung back toward statehood . between the two extremes lies most of the world , as it is characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement .
but the “ perfect storm ” ” of the biggest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , together with the resulting meltdown of three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , has gone well beyond any scenario that had been contemplated . japan had a powerful international reputation as it is to manage natural disasters . japan ’s national government and indigenous communities had no emergency plan to deal with those they faced in contaminated areas , resulting in ad hoc responses characterized by inefficiencies and poor communication – particularly with respect to radiological risk . despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk , and to limit potential hazard from consumption in contaminated foodstuffs . local communities initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated zones ( such as those in countries like france and schools ) in conjunction with efforts by japan ’s nuclear energy agency ( jaea ) to develop technology for remediation within these zones .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of leftist populism is gaining close . kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs . she recently suffered a heavy defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , is weakening its chances in the upcoming midterm congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her other two years in office . moreover , she now faces a legislative election in poor health , following the surgery to remove the subdural hematoma in her brain . kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs .
the three new agencies will not only enforce the common technological standards that could eventually become binding across the eu if endorsed by the european commission , but will also be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency , like that of the us nowadays , eu agencies might exceptionally well hand over the predominance of predominance over national supervisors . in good times , we probably would not have told the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement would have been unlikely to contain another crisis . needless to say , “ dispute ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . if systemically important national financial institutions ’ decisions are reached at the european level in good times , while in bad times national taxpayers elect a tab , the entire eu will lose .
at the same time , all of them are vulnerable to extremist violence . but the cause is all too well known : a war against schooling . more than 28 million out-of-school children grow up surrounded by conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , somalia , myanmar , and south sudan . there were two other strikes on schoolchildren both in afghanistan , one of the girls in afghanistan , one at a girl school where staff was bludgeoned and bombs set off , and another at neighboring boys ’ school , where a classroom sprayed with bullets . the number of casualties in both of their families remains unknown .
one hopes that this task has been slightly easier by publishing a message in which copenhagen consensus economists boil down their insights . a comprehensive prevention program that provides free or inexpensive condoms , and information on safe sex to the worst affected regions of hiv/aids , would cost $ 27 billion , saving more than 28 million lives . the societal benefits would outweigh the costs by $ 40 per person . that , say , the copenhagen consensus economists makes it the single best investment that the world could potentially make . here is one fact to consider : the full death toll taken by the association of southeast asian countries is matched by a toll of global hiv/aids casualties .
china ’s government views the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the desire to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to a comfortable lifestyle . indeed , japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are anxious to keep the dollar ’s value relatively high , with their central banks hoarding by close to us $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotations the highly clever catherine mann commenting on “ the co-dependent relationship between america and its trading partners , ” which might “ last for a quite some time , ” because “ both america and its major trading partners have vested interests at the status quo . ” the last thing they really want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions into question .
washington , dc – not long ago , the disconnect between financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle those functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial-supervisory issues altogether . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management were forced to reunify . this rapprochement is a product of the growing recognition that asset-price cycles need to be led to concern both for macroeconomic management and financial supervision . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles were viewed by many as essentially innocuous , or at least as even relatively insignificant , monetary-policy transmission .
much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening up trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . seoul – if one chase two rabbits at one time , the ancient saying goes , both get away with doing so . the two goals , while not incompatible , tend to be quite different from one another ; and few policy instruments may simultaneously help to achieve both . and yet this is precisely what many governments are obliged to do : pursue growth and distributional fairness . that idea matters a lot on trade policy as much as we do .
ttip is not just the us and the eu . meanwhile , the world ’s other nations – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering how the ttip would affect each of its own . one possibility , suggested by my ex-colleague , a former american trade representative carla boola booz , is that a successful ttip would provide a major impetus to rekindling a moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . mexico already has an fta with the eu , with canada negotiating one . at some point , it will need to be harmonized .
indeed , sovereigns dumping a larger fraction of their public debt to banks ’ balance sheets , especially in the eurozone . to avoid a disorderly run on the eurozone , today ’s bout of fiscal austerity should be far more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) should be implemented alongside a full banking union , beginning with eurozone-wide deposit insurance , and move toward greater political integration . alas , germany resists all of these crucial policy actions , because it is fixated on credit risk by its taxpayers would face more economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe is on the rise . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the biggest pile up , it is not the only one threatening the global economy .
this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries next to impossible . to be sure , with its intentions toward india , china claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful . but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s behavior sends is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be grasping for “ opening give by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans . ” for example , they contends that its efforts to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy are aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , a maritime trade route perceived as choking point to the chinese economy .
european opposition to a roadmap for ukraine and georgian argue that neither country is prepared for nato membership . but the marshall process does not imply an automatic right to nato membership . both would have to answer many hard questions and convince others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic demands before they are allowed to join . on the contrary , the maps would put heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . too many question mark on their national unity are said to exist ; too many internal conflicts are dormant ; and their record on political and judicial reforms is supposedly dubious .
but , like donald trump , it was le pen who ran as the people ’s “ voice , ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , had been portrayed as the puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . so what are the left and the right still to mean , if anything at all ? there is little doubt that something shifted in the recent decades of the twentieth century . left-wing parties had started to lose – with ease – in some countries more rapidly than others that – their base on the industrial working class . redistribution of wealth had become less important than that of ethnic and sexual minorities .
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons given the north korean threat and their heightened confidence in america ’s trustworthiness and ensure “ protection ” by its own nuclear powers . the dangers in both regions of concern are that a race to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preemptive war . “ take advantage of them or lose ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , at a time when capabilities are not yet robust enough to absorb an attack , and yet mete out the sort of ruinous retaliation essential to effective deterrence . even if such a war were avoided , a continuation of multiple nuclear arsenals would enhance the temptation for one or another to strike the first time in a crisis . one risk is that north korea will come to possess a significant arsenal , which will pose a meaningful security threat to america .
the chinese accepted the evidence , agreeing that stealing industrial technology was different from other forms of political espionage , and declared that the chinese government would not help in such theft by the future . moreover , when it turned to specific trade policies , the nss emphasizes the desire to “ crack down on ” trade barriers and provide americans with opportunities to increase their exports . this emphasis on boosting exports , rather than reducing imports , is a welcome feature . at a 2013 sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama showed china that us president xi jinping was the evidence that chinese members were stealing industrial technology . given that this is insufficient to halt other chinese theft of american civilian and military technology , the new nss rightly stresses that america ’s government will take additional steps to stop it .
china miscalculated by deviating from its smart strategy of rising power and violating deng ’s dictum that “ china should proceed cautiously and “ keep a low profile ” again . many chinese had mistakenly concluding that this represented a shift in the balance of global power , and that america had been on the decline . but , again , such narratives can result in conflict . indeed , over-confidence in assessing its power led to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relations with america , japan , india , and other countries , they opted for a return to deng any smart-power strategy .
but , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . fiscal discipline and structural reforms were unevenly applied , and the central bank squandered its credibility at key moments . as such , countries ’ economic and financial fundamentals remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . argentina had fallen back into crisis for a simple reason that had changed not since the latest debacle . though they had been committed to its ambitious program of reform , argentina ’s economic and financial institutions also had a couple of avoidable mistakes .
attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; at best , very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it has already begun . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure an economy rely on extra-date , incomplete , or flawed data . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp based on upfront monthly gdp estimates , a statistic that is often revised substantially as more data become available . as a result , forecasts lag behind reality . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of all outperforming forecasters who contribute to a survey by professional forecasters predicted gdp decline in the subsequent months ; in fact , gdp plunged more than 8 % during the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the biggest performers on record .
fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict , which , for one side at least , entails no consideration of strategy , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . nato , for the first time ever , intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . the west is fighting a war over principles , war , as president bill clinton put it , “ to an end a moral tragedy . ” this marks a substantial change in nato ’s policy that downgrades the idea of states ’ sovereignty and elevates the status of formal ethical norms in international relations . at stake is an attempt to stop the outbreak , the beasts of which in the 20th century have become nazism , communism , fascism and now , nationalism .
far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore now dictate green buildings . policymakers know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and to help build industrial capacity . building codes already guard against dangers like fire and airline booms . buildings recently over a number of decades , so the decisions that make today ’s long-term implications for our energy use look like . california ’s latest building and appliance standards are expected to avoid the need in the next ten years for five large power plants .
rather than try to explore opportunities presented by brazilian/turkish opening , america was quick to back the un security council with additional sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this has forced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent members of the un security council , to vote against an sanctions resolution . yet efforts to preempt america ’s strategy have clearly failed , as new un sanctions did earlier this month . just as the agreement was intended to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why has been so much outrage in both the us and the west ? i worry that this is because america has found itself denied its primacy in setting global policy on iran .
and it turns out that growth rates decline in all of these categories as debt-to-gdp ratios rise , only slightly more in the last category . one reason for this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are commensurate with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid letting rates rise , just as keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance . after all , debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise for a country in economic trouble . without explanation , they chose to divide debt-to-gdp ratios into the following classes : between 30 % and 30-60 % , 60-90 % , and well over 90 % . at the same time , there is an underlying issue of reverse causality .
as a result , policies forced human and business leaders to shift to immature technology will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty . that is also the reason that the world is far behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . solar and wind are currently delivering around 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this is expected to reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . vaclav piil , who is bill gates of energy experts , argues that “ “ claims about a rapid transition to a zero-carbon society ” are plain nonsense , ” adding that , “ even an enormously accelerated shift toward renewables would not erode fossil fuels to minority contributors to global power anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 . ” many of today ’s panicky political statements and climate protests are driven by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us only 12 years to save the planet .
fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money circulating in african countries . remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . a ugandan physician working in norway , for instance , cares little about the cost of a local beverages in kampala . he is also willing and able to pay more for themselves than a local physician for services , and obviously home in uganda . the decline in remittances nonetheless cuts both ways .
the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . yet mitigating all risk is impossible , so the goal of mitigating it is impossible . rather , it is intended to benefit from the precautionary principle judiciously and rationally , balancing potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technology might offer . in europe , by contrast , more weight is placed on risk-avoidance avoidance , undermining private-sector confidence in investment into innovation . this conception of risk underpins economic interactions .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different – and perhaps contradictory – expectations of indirect negotiations that the united states has been pushing on for the beginning of the year . just a reminder of the world of this , since the round of talks was prepared to take off the ground , israel ’s government has approved a decision on some 112 housing units in a settlement south bethlehem , and 800 new settlement units in east jerusalem . israel was among the first negotiating parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to return palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to give their blessing to the talks . for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the start of indirect talks , without freezing settlements activities in the west bank and jerusalem , is a sort of victory . for the palestinians , a return to talks , however indirect , focuses on a single strategic issue : borders .
for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment `` thou '' does not intervene , some of the critical feature of the hazard of globalization is market failure . consider other devastating events that are uninsurable ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . contrary to moral hazard , market failure emphasizes the circumstances in which government interventions are both socially desirable and ineffective . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate federal help . that failure in international capital markets led to a sudden , wrenching , and devastating , capital outflows after 1996 were just one such episode .
as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates control european politics . thus , though european countries remained democratic , eu institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions was shifted , have remained democracy-free . handing europe money and politics to a railroad administration did not just spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . that leads european leaders to double down on acts of authoritarianism to stick to their unsuccessful policies once recessionary economic forces tighten . the more europe ’s establishment kowtows to democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that hit japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . social unrest and turmoil , along with the radiation leaks by the fukushima nuclear-power plant , continue to do so . and now the country has absorbed another huge blow : another downscale of its bond ratings . almost six months later , total damage remains hard to estimate . both moody ’s and the standard & poor ’s currently rates japanese treasury bonds at only their fourth-highest level .
furthermore , the iranian regime has forged a web of proxy forces throughout the region . syria and iraq have become crucial links in an iran-led shia strategic arc that stretches across afghanistan from afghanistan to lebanon . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shia militia , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon , and possesses thousands of rockets prepared to target israel . even if the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be security , many could still evade defensive systems . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize whatever crude missile it launched from gaza .
indeed , rasheed notes that at every american screening of his film , audiences are needed to apologize before starting rasheed as a filmmaker rather than as a proxy for his country . “ personally , i ask nothing ; i ’m here to clear some confusion by the middle of the movie . ” here hope is that raheed and his colleagues are continuing to build up an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; and here ’s the hope that , more or less , relations by the us and international audiences to rasheed are moving from one of expiation on a piece of work . iraq , war-ravaged iraq , and now rocked daily by violence , is known as the most intellectually inclined of the arab country . as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region often reprise : the books are written in egypt , printed in lebanon , and read in iraq .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to establish an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a massive anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as a power grab , since assuming office in 2012 . and , as the recent post-crisis european experience showed , it is politically extremely difficult to implement structural reforms when vested interests captured the regulatory system . but china ’s problems extend far beyond its structural imbalances to two kinds of cyclical macroeconomic risks . the initial risk-off risk stems from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates rise and fall together .
economic globalization has been shown to reduce infant mortality and decrease life expectancy , owing to increased incomes and better information . in the americas , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity substantially . in uganda , freer trade in the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen the mean rate of lifespan by a factor of 2-3 years . what is more , “ free trade is good for the environment , ” ” ” ” to quote one academic study . moreover , trade also carries much broader benefits to society .
the permanent , structured defense cooperation – agreed by the european council last december – is a good place to start , with countries on the rise , for example , holding joint strategic planning at the european level . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to bind eu funds to accepting migrants , eu member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . but , as tempting as may be , attempting paper over divergences , or avoiding dissent , much less destroying the compact at the heart of the european project , will not make matters easier . the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic and incremental effort to build unity . there is no question that it is hard enough for the eu ’s 27 sovereigns to act as one .
manila – on april 30 , ranching nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , and added to a gloomy global tally . according to united nations reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists were murdered worldwide during the past 15 years had been brought to justice only a handful of offenders . and yet the fresh glimmers of hope are proliferating . worldwide , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in reinvigorated ways . to be sure , news media are under assault like never before , rather than relying solely on fake news and simplistic presidents .
future historians may well remember this period as humankind the greatest exercise in inclusiveness to the date . yet not that long ago , almost nobody saw it coming . seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for much of the world ’s income , but only 15 % of its population . now , trillions of people have lifted themselves out of poverty and become wealthier , healthier , and more opportunity . indeed , this unanticipated megatrend has an unforeseen corollaries .
indeed , it reacted to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western hard power , stalking horse-for american or german interests that would ultimately exploit ordinary poles . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the turkish leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . simultaneously , poland ’s communist government stressed how incoherent the opposition was , owing to tensions inherent in a marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , law-abiding catholics , and nationalists . nurturing suspicions about who supported the drive wedges between the various groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for a more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview is today .
as the liberal democratic party ’s leader , abe should instruct local party branches to elect more women candidates to run in next april ’s local election . but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the willingness to do so ( though he might decide to cooperate with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring more female voters ) . it is also disturbing that some women abe has selected for his cabinet and key party posts are arch-conservatives who advocate allowing women to stay in their homes and caring for children . japan ’s inter-parliamentary union ranks 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio of female mps . things are simply bad at lower-level governments , where women account for a mere 3.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , over 40 % that do not have a female member .
what good is a longer life if we can not maintain our standard of living ? the crucial difficulty in planning for strengthened longevity is that we do not even know whether it will really happen . living a long time horizon is one of our deepest desires , and that of medical and economic advancement provides the hope of meeting them . some researchers tell us that average human lifespan could reach about 90 years , or more by mid-century . but what if our wish is granted ?
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful to avoid alienating political and business elites who had long benefited from their tight power grip . in short , if jokowi is to forge a national consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs , he will have to navigate across this policy divide . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for partisan and religious independence , as well as playing a talent for communicating with the people . and , as a political outsider , he is in a unique position to direct indonesia directly toward a more prosperous , united states , and to mobilize himself into the country ’s pantheon of great leaders . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact ” for mexico ” could serve as a useful model .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
currently , the board does not have a formal status , and only a tiny , low-status staff , hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . the imf is too political a body to behave like the systemic-risk watchdog . it should give the fsb a legal personality enshrined in the international treaty . the next g-20 summit ought to implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be empowered to direct powers to the other nordic setters , review the implementation of norms by individual countries , and publish outcomes .
to be sure , a pussy riot could hardly be classified as musicians . both feminist chants and crude chords were secondary . dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney into madonna , rallied in the support of women . there have also attracted attention from the west , which has been attracting attention . through them , they have been more interested in developing visual images .
now , following firms ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed yar ’ adua to take charge of an oil policy want nigeria to obtain a larger slice of the pie . indeed , in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of tough currency , nigeria negotiated treaties inducing oil companies to expand new fields and re-coup their investment ahead of the gains . that also means ending government co-financing of operating costs , and demanding that oil-producing petroleum companies tap capital markets to bridge the shortcoming . the petroleum resource department ( dan ) , the us oil industry regulatory agency , dismissed such claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that skirt the deadline . moreover , tony chukwueke , the uneshead , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , by converting a sclerotic nigerian petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm that could dominate markets in guinea and other emerging-market countries .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states triggered the start of the so-called “ “ war on terror ” . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole of it ; many countries , too , have ramped up monitoring and policing of domestic media and ordinary citizens . free of speech and individual privacy , governments have claimed , would need to be curbed for human-rights purposes . the damage has been especially pronounced in russia , where anti-terror legislation was often used as an instrument for muffle the votes of those offering independent or alternative viewpoints , particularly the views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by using security as a pretext for silencing russia ’s media legislation , which explicitly protects journalists from censorship , the government has undermined journalism considerably .
populist campaigns in major referendums earlier this year differed in important respects . for example , colombian opponents of the peace treaty appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the army and the farc , rather than to national particularism , as occurred in the uk and the netherlands . but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your representative owes you , not its industry alone , but its judgment ; it betrays , rather than serving , as long as it sacrifices that to my opinion . ” nonetheless , they have all been motivated by a desire to scuttle governments and the institutions they oppose . and they have all been willing to follow a different tradition of dictators and resort to smears , distortions , and , in various cases , fantastical claims .
something sinister and immoral might come from the films that we should take into account . something sinister and immoral might come to mind in the films that we should take into account . to a bookish young fellow , allen , the anxious intellectual , still getting the girl , was a kind of role model . but now , familiar with the accusations against the comedian and movie director , we are being forced , in louisiana ’s view , to reappraise the work in this light . in other words , bad behavior or even alleged missteps , can taint an artistic work because the performer can not be separated from his or her own arts . this is at least an even more interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualifying just because we do not like how the performer behaved privately .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , had been forced to resign , was subsequently jailed for corruption . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes had just given the country ’s former former minister of energy and mineral resources , jerusalem , to four years in jail . likewise , indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto resign was forced to resign , after having caught up to extort money from the state-owned mining corporation subsidiary freeport-mcmoran justice company . and public officials , too , are being prosecuted for being well documented . lastly , journalism has played a bigger role as well .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing . but what looks good in theory has proved difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers do more to continue increasing their countries ’ reliance on finance , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market adjustments than implementing difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustments . for this reason , many countries endured painful encroachments that had aggravated potentially aggravated output collapses , caused by waves of unemployment , and , at worst , undermined potential growth . a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” approach involves a combination of internal reform , finance , and judicious use of market-based pricing mechanisms .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article , based on a confidential paper that reveals how the breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ being treated as part of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustrations that ukraine ’s brings . a document released by the bild provides a report from the october nato-russia meeting ’s “ inter-ministerial commission on the provision of humanitarian assistance for affected areas in southeastern regions of donetsk and luhansk . ” it describes how the meeting ’s attendees focused not only on humanitarian aid , but rather on serving as a kind of shadow government . working groups cooperate with the russian authorities were established to steer the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade .
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and thrive , but rather on how it can transform its own relations with europe , there should be no mistaking the temper and frame of mind that our current set of partners will exercise that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of polish politeness . but they will not thank the us , and will not accommodate it . let the us become extremely clear , too , about renegotiating the terms of eu membership , ” ” ” ” refuge by those who wish to leave but want to persuade people that it really means an adjustment of the relationship . when a “ adjustment ” is put very rough ( as it will ) , say , “ nice , ’s pity , ” but now adjustment does n’t seem to be enough .
it is also depriving a continent of the talents and contributions required to drive development and progress . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ “ getting women in both science and technology ultimately promise to benefit society as a whole . ” gender equity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars are presenting the world how to do that . africa ’s stem gender imbalances are often compared to a leaky pipe : girls start out with interest and aptitude , but slumps from disciplines at different points in their study . but they need aid , with programs offering scholarships and aid being among the best ways to achieve parity with the sciences .
the benefits of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . and , however farfetched a global currency might sound , recall that prior to world war i ditching the gold standard seems equally implausible . after all , the current system is both risky and inefficient . various monies are not only a discomfort for tourists coming home with pockets of unspendable overseas coins . global firms waste time and resources on largely futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only those banks acting as middleman ) .
what they failed to do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counterproposal . their offer , which would have to go much further than the 2002 arab peace initiative , or a set of relevant united nations resolutions , could even incorporate kushner ’s plan as a part of the transition to a definitive settlement . after all , it would have gone a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically expanding the peace settlement ’s chances of its long-term success . in the past , the transitional agreement has amounted to what george orwell has called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this might be translated into “ auspicious gradualism . ”
caning kartika , by contrast , is not an example of political manipulation , and for this reason is perhaps even more worrisome . her phrase was roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that punishment was justly applied , and can not be questioned because she has divine sanction . the majority of are anti-umno and supporting the pas . these are not politicians , but the former idealists who feel satisfied that their goals of islamicizing the state are being realized . as a result , the umno is finding itself being squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses for the more “ talibanization ” of the country , and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power .
specifically , an america would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , simply because an america might want a united asia-pacific economic community , rather than a divide between asia and the pacific . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a us-centered pacific . to be sure , america would need to respond to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta in order to preserve its own role in global trade , as well as in the supply chains that dominate asian economies . it would probably seek to expand and deepen its infant trans-pacific partnership , the trade agreement initiated by us president barack obama ’s administration last year . because japan would not want to be excluded from the us on an issue of strategic reasons , it might actually embrace america as an invitation .
but , while it quietly makes a number of important technical donations to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus unable to achieve it forcefully beyond its own jurisdiction . that is the unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a group of nation states that has so far failed to decide whether they favor greater unity or greater decentralization . for the boj , a fundamental problem is its deep-seated institutional fear of rocking the boe ’s politically , and therefore its inability to play the role of the chief economist . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands the super-conventional influence . as an premier pan-european institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play the leadership role in europe ’s debates about fiscal policy , business policy , and its demographic
those results were foreshadowed by a study last year by anne case and angus deaton , who showed that life expectancy has been on the decline for large segments of the us population , including america ’s called angry rust belt men . but , with incomes on the bottom 90 % have stagnated for the very close to a third of a century ( and declining for a significant share ) , such health data simply confirmed that things did n’t go well for very large swaths of the country . why did the backlash in the us arrive at a time when the us economy seemed on the mend , rather than earlier ? and while america might be at the extremes of this trend , things were little better elsewhere . but , if it seemed clear that political consequences would have been found at all , their form and timing were far less obvious .
indeed , both israel and the united states are adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , whereas hamas will not abandon its identity as a resistance movement only to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal demands . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its unwillingness to become mired in another asymmetrical war , like the one it fought in lebanon a few summers ago , this time in its alleys in gaza ’s refugee camps . aside from the annapolis talks , which seem to go nowhere because of parties ’ incontrovertible differences over core questions , all the other peace efforts are more tactical than strategic . at neither side are the conditions that yet exist for an imminent leap from war to peace ; nor are the parties themselves expecting to happen . it would require bold statesmanship to turn a cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks .
specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic strength , and france , an intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce its simultaneous exit from the euro and re-adoption of the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation , as well as perhaps those in the franc , relative to france . to be sure , france and germany would have to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems for stability . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to retain the euro in their own truncated form or returned to their own national currencies , possibly peddling them in the revived deutsche mark or the franc . whatever their decision , reining in the eurozone ’s weaker economies would improve significantly .
at the same time , islamist revolutionaries of 1979 made a point of preserving “ zoroastrian fire temples . ” other autocratic rulers in the muslim world learn from iran ’s example , cracking down on hard on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or , not just on anyone with ideas and wishes to exchange them with the rest of the world . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorists , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism . in its muslim era , iran has boasted some of the greatest poets , writers and researchers in the world . none of this was possible if iran ’s ancient sunni muslim rulers had not allowed academic freedom and free exchange of thought and expression , something sorely lacking in today ’s islamic republic .
a leadership group ’s first priority would be to address the current crisis . initially , a leadership group could include representatives from a core group of states such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states directly empowered and linked to their respective presidents and prime ministers . in order to ensure broad european membership and transparency throughout the current architecture , the leadership group should include a representative from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . its direct ties with us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would differentiate it from existing arrangements . as a result , a leadership group would represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , and would provide a desperately needed vehicle for imposing their resolve in action .
the extreme rise in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , with its reversal being a major driver of recovery . finally , there are two important differences between the 1930 ’s and the present for the us . the industrialized world is far more dependent on ( mostly foreign ) oil ( relative to most of it then ) than it was then . just as some confidence is returning to the banking system in the us , with slow bond yields spiking with falling inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will fall , support economic activity , and stabilize real house prices , albeit at a substantially lower level . the other critical difference is that we know enough not to repeat the mistakes – especially trade protectionism – of the 1930 ’s .
terrorists have hit europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . populist movements have surfaced , calling the establishment of closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ gloomy truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that humans trust in science , facts , and knowledge . ” to be sure , our expectations will always be found in tension with the realities on the ground . researchers continue to surprise us with amazon ’s tremendous discoveries , with billions of people worldwide lifted out of abject poverty . but dark clouds have been emerging on the horizon .
denver – the united states ’ agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much to a question of what it could mean on the ground that remains to be seen as the inspectors begin to flow into syria , and us hopes that , chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to crumble . in those days , weeks , and months ahead , arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , initiate a new era in which the us and russia cooperate on other pressing global issues , just as they do . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system , now near-dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . an agreement on syria might accomplish something else : the americans might recognize that , amlo and behold , there are other ways to solve problems rather than by dropping bombs . rather , the deal ’s main significance consists in hitting putin at all : us secretary of state john kerry meetings with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva that most of the conventional friend of us diplomacy and cut deals on an issue of intense mutual self-interest .
to be sure , while multinational corporations enjoy flexibility on transfer pricing and could exert pressure on them at a time when the new investment decisions are being made , their flexibility does not compare with the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . moreover , the financial capital is better situated to a global system than the industrial capital ; once a plant exists , the shift is difficult . there is also an advantage of being at the center of the global economy , rather than its periphery . the benefits of globalized capitalism are unevenly distributed . capital is in fact a far better place than labor , because capital is more mobile .
for my part , i would ’m unsure ; but i would n’t have surprised had it happened already . i have long been reluctant to watch a five-year forward price for a shortage of a more humals-based approach to thinking about the equilibrium price of oil . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude of oil places is less subject to speculative fluctuations , and is thus a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . the graph i prepared – made ahead of the latest consumption oil-price acceleration in early november – shows a five-year forward oil price binge following a period of some stability . with the spot price now moving above a five-month level of forward prices , one might conclude that a trend is underway .
but the biggest problem facing hatoyama ’s administration is that the dpj took power without a coherent national-security policy . the dpj was established in 1998 as the “ jambalaya ” party consisting of people of the ldp , including hatoyama himself , as well as a former socialist party . this not amounts to a coherent government program , with prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quickly ruling out the dpj in terms of vital hollowness . but the biggest problem facing hatoyama ’s administration is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . indeed , the dpj is only reason to pursue ; but its anti-ldp posture is its anti-ldp posture , whereas the sdp has long opposed a japan-us security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes koizumi ’s privatization era .
preparing for effective defense of the state is unthinkable without more or lesser participation in every nation ’s institutions . in a democratic state , these engage in defense efforts only to delegitimize itself as society understands the importance of first-mover defense . thus , for some time and again , defense means should be reminded that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the dignity of every person of us . the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible enemies at present . as a result , many consider defensive expenditures to be a luxury , if not a outright waste of money .
i can personally vouch for the power of spillover benefits from this kind of research . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover benefits for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the emergence of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to the issuance of three u.s. patents , with a few agricultural companies pursuing technological privileges commercializing products . more investment might enable researchers to discover new microbial strains with their unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa 's own natural environment to raise agricultural productivity .
iran backed the us during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . the iranians also pledged to stop nonproliferation efforts against the israeli-arab peace process . iran also supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . in the american-iranian equation it was america , not iran , that carried out robust ideological diplomacy . and , when american forces overran saddam hussein ’s army during the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would place all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear question to israel , from hezbollah to hamas .
in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty . and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive buildup of conventional forces and large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , china , and the rest of the world will not allow a return to american hegemony . putin recently made this clear by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ” at the same time , america has long pursued military advantage .
it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim . it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim . but in copenhagen , the structure established by the lisbon treaty has failed . beyond the failure in copenhagen , the eu has a few other problems . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and fast dwindling ) , and comprised mostly of post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly perceived as marginalized .
if a company the size of the us retailer walmart decides that it wo n’t allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power would lead to change in packaging for the entire retail sector . the same is true for both wages and labor practices . but bigger companies also have a larger capacity to become a power for good , both locally and globally . when the world ’s largest firms and the most well recognized brand take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and makes a firm commitment to transacting on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those operating in an ethical manner and seeking to improve the lives of all those associated with manufacture , marketing , and distributing their products will benefit kudos , more trading , or simply not singled out as a bad actor .
there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and 40 international ngos that are involved in providing aid to the pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country . that can be seen most clearly in my own country , pakistan . despite the massive inflows of aid dollars in recent years , including the billions authorized by former president barack obama , those on the us soil are largely cut off from the delivery process . simply put , western countries ’ current approach are not working .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all ” must not lead to the undesirable result of a spiral of extreme climate change caused by a catastrophic rise in global temperatures , harsher conditions , and elevated poverty levels . he noted that it is oil companies that are engaged with “ continuing to quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement obviously urged most fossil fuels underground . and he reminded executives that “ “ civilization ” requires energy , but the use of energy must not destroy civilization ! and he reminded the executives that “ “ “ “ civilization ” requires energy , ” but the use of energy must not be destroyed by civilization ! the same corruption of the purposes is prompting the canadian government to guarantee new pipelines to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia while under-investing in canada with its vast renewables .
the resulting epizootic ( animal epidemics ) affected more than 280,000 cows . kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic rituals that were commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy cattle were fed up with meat and bone foods made from infected cattle . and the near-identical , invariably deadly diseases , kuru , had ravaged newly aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie , they are a infectious disease .
from every angle is the extremity ation of this state of affairs , in which those with access to credit do n’t actually need it , and those who can not get it – are highly problematic . all of this erodes social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuate genuine concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . if left unattended , it leads to progressively , and then accelerate , renewed deleveraging of the economic system , with the highest first-round costs – a longer period of unemployment and growth crises – borne disproportionately by those least suffering from them . this includes those reliant on bank credit , as do many debt-intensive mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances exceeding their homes ’ market value . in the next round , as the system has become slow to implodes , even those with sound balance sheets would be held , accelerating their disengagement from the world economy .
by the early 1990 ’s , it became more apparent that the armed struggle for power in latin american had been winding down . throughout the hemisphere ’s democratic transitions had made guerilla warfare unfit : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule had prevailed , take arms were pointless . in country after country , the guerillas were defeated , pacified , brought into the democratic process , or rendered roughly irrelevant . only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , the manuel 25-patriotic front in chile , for a brief period of the zapatistas in chiapas , mexico and the farc in colombia . everywhere else , for whatever reason , misguided strategies , tactical mistakes , erroneous theories , american intervention , and so forth , they faced only defeat , repression , and futility .
at that time , the working class dependably supported the center-left parties . the only political space left for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants . european fascism had collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but had less aggressive forms living on elsewhere , such as argentina with its socialist peronism . interwar fascism ’s social base made it reasonable to see it as a party of the far right . nowadays , the very social basis of left-wing politics has vanished .
it should have been careful and deliberate sounding the will of the people . for the eu , greece received a hastily arranged referendum . putting that aside , let us suppose that the decision before tsipras was so crucial and complex that it merited the exceptional stride of the referendum . it was to be organized and conducted with the result of respect for the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed by greek people . in that case , the event was supposed to reflect that complexities .
moreover , different communities prioritize human rights differently . when female circumcision , there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individual physical integrity , but also between parental rights and the state ’s authority , multiculturalism and nationalism , as well as religious and secular moral perspectives . as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , “ circumcision has featured in conflicts between europeans and middle easterners for many centuries . ” in other words , culture plays a far greater role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . for some , the moral framework that human rights provide is sufficient in itself ; but , for the rest of us , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ language of human rights hardly exhausts the moral and spiritual realm . ”
new delhi – there is something about a number of five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship with respect to the famous pancha sheela : mutual respect of one another ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-interference ; mutual non-interference in one another ’s domestic affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new sheela pancha , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . the updated principles would preserve strategic communications and sound bilateral relationships ; harness each other ’s strengths and expand cooperation in infrastructure , investment , and countless other areas ; deepen cultural ties and increase mutual understanding ; expand coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate one another ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . for its part , india would gladly embrace each of these principles .
the bank has also put pressure on privatizing national health systems , local water utilities and roads and power grids , and grossly underfinanced these critical industries . this extreme free-market ideology , too , has called “ structural adjustment , ” a second one , went against the practical lessons of development achievements in china and the rest of asia . the result has been a disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades . practical development strategies recognizes that public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is indispensable added to private investment . for 25 years , the bank has tried to pull governments out of the agriculture sector , leaving poor peasants to fend for themselves .
meanwhile , the perception that he has the american people on the ropes enables putin to continue silencing his opponents . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , handing the government an excuse to bar him through the ballot box . putin ’s authority may seem to appear unshakeable ; but he is actually being wooed by propaganda and fear . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take the leeway that foreign leaders give him . when the america betrays its own figures to avoid challenging russia , it strengthens putin ’s hand considerably .
throughout europe , calls for a “ affordable energy ” are fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of green-energy commitments . five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . yet today , its political leaders openly attack “ burdensome ” green taxes . with energy prices moving center stage , there is a danger that already-weak incentives for investment in low-carbon energy will further undermine recovery . recent debates within the uk illustrate the unfolding fault lines .
indeed , for all of its practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . a kleptocracy of government-run officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen colonized the chinese state , and intent on blocking any reforms that might jeopardize their underprivileged status . rampant corruption and rising inequality , together with blatant environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese , particularly the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform , to become increasingly disillusioned . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
apart from another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the news on the disarmament front over the past year has surely been grim . further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before the american presidential election season began . negotiations to “ de-alert ” ” ” ” the $ 2,000 nuclear weapon that remains in an absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness never really started . prudent initial moves by america to modify its nuclear doctrine , toward accepting that nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” is to respond to the nuclear threat , rather than any other sort of kind , have gone nowhere . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has committed the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reductions negotiations until the two major powers , which currently hold an estimated 95 % of the world ’s gdp , make any significant cutbacks .
indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left polo alternativo democratico alternativo democratico . in the process , he has transformed a land that has been in the grip of drug-barons and on the brink of becoming a failed state . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , in line with uribe ’s popularity and a surging economy , delivered , for the first time in three decades , normality to colombia ’s cities , and , increasingly , to a peace and the rule of law to much of its great jungles . but uribe ’s apparent defeat by the farc extend well beyond colombia . the hostage rescue mission has also forced chávez , still recovering from last year ’s failed power-grabs referendum ( a moment when chávez ’s own military high command supposedly refused to constrain the result ) on defense .
clearly , the aid for international education will have to rise . but the fact remains that a significant share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children is – 12 million of whom are refugees – will go through their school-age years , without ever having ever set foot in a school . in addition to mobilizing private sources of finance , us funding already needs to be made available ( at $ 13 billion this year ) goes far further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own investment in education . throughout the world ’s 35 conflict zones , some 75 million children currently are being denied both schooling and the prospect of future employment . yet , with an annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone , it is also clear that we need a new approach .
and , indeed , a substantial portion of greece ’s government debt has migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions have already largely bailed out private institutions . but the risks have not been minimized , at least for now . the margin of error on major banks and other financial institutions is narrow-minded . because they are still not widely capitalized , the modest losses from direct defaults and indirect losses by businesses in greece may threaten bank capital , causing bankers to contract again on lending .
as a result , these efforts reduced the costs of annual hiv therapies , from more than $ 10,000 per health per person in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 . the resulting economies of scale have allowed contractors to shift from low - and high-benefit suppliers to higher-level solutions , low-margin profit models . as a result , these efforts have reduced the costs of annual hiv therapies , from over $ 10,000 per person in 2001 to below $ 100 in 2016 . the resulting economies of scale have allowed aid suppliers to shift from low - and high-benefit health solutions to high-benefit , low-margin profit models . for example , it would have been helpful for programs to track how much high-blood , high-blood aids drugs have been diagnosed and placed on treatment , what share of those on treatment have had blood-encroachments , and what level of treatment would have required reducing premature deaths by the desirable target .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , rather than whether what kills a person is part of an epidemic . just before last year ’s trade talks in cancún , america made some concessions , so that it was no longer the only holdout . indeed , the global consensus , reflected in the us commission ’s report , calls for more exceptions , so that , say , drug can be made accessible in any case for doing so could save lives . in its bilateral trade agreement , however , america imposes what is becoming known as the “ tour plus , ” which would strengthen intellectual-property rights further , ensuring that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergencies . the bilateral agreement form the foundation of enhanced ties with like-minded countries ’ friendship .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of becoming overheating . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether american recovery in the us is real . if this is true , they will not change china ’s exports more rapidly . and if its exports grow more rapidly , they could allow the renminbi to soar . meanwhile , us-china spending growth will not change dramatically .
broader national engagement , with ngos , local media , and a broad set of policymakers , is now viewed as an integral part of effective country advice and program implementation , as equally vital to the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function as part of its articles of agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national issues that are now tearing its policy agenda . specifically , the fund would need to supplement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private donors . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on the country or the policy work force were discouraged . in fact , the situation today is very different .
as soon as a slow process to respond , the world is acting now . leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children , and armed conflict are being recommends designating abductions of children from schools a “ trigger violation , ” for naming an alleged violation of terrorist organizations at the un security council ’s annual report to the un security council . thirty countries have lately signed up to “ lucens , or safe school guidelines to instruct their military organs how to prevent schools from being used as “ war tools . ” and , thanks to the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , a global coalition to protect education from attack , a global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of only safe schools . that has meant funding school guards , fortifications , and surveillance devices to reassure parents and pupils that all possible is being done to ensure that their school is safe to participate .
because fiscal austerity implies greater recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and a more domestic demand surge through the late-cycle of fiscal austerity – in germany . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players , the european central bank and the german government , want no part of this agenda , in the hope that one-quarter of good gdp figures makes a trend . italy ’s position is thus insolvent , and a coercive restructuring of its own public debt is inevitable . it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why even italy , which has been on a relatively sounder fiscal footing , but has more apartment per capita income up for a decade and little structural reform – not to be complacent . the rest of europe is in barely better shape than the periphery : bond vigilantes might not reawakened in france , but the economic performance there has been an anemic , at best , spurred largely by the mini house boom .
jospin and chirac have done nothing to implement the grand program of liberalizing trade ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members by two years in lisbon , which implies that the benefits of trade liberalization are denied france at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all kinds of restrictions on the french way to do business . europeans thought that the old political class could be the solution . but both europe and the us could increasingly catalysts for public resentment . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( “ l’exception spain ” ) and initiate serious reforms that engage the french electorate . le pen ’s shame at newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial as it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and address the country ’s problems .
there certainly was much sentiment with this kind of sentiment in the 1930 ’s , when a populist response to the great depression was attributed to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” an alternative scenario suggests that such fears emanate from a real-world problem . a modern versions of this explanation holds that the world is now changing so rapidly that national security , and indeed national identity , is under threat . modern economic growth still depends on almost every advanced industrialized country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) . people in places like france and poland , which worry about national decline , seek to accuse somebody outside the country .
calling for national elections , while politically correct , was political suicide ; for him , he lacked any idea of a possible outcome , and did very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . his own name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name but a reflection of the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son . his own other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name but a revolutionary name that reflects the practice of naming a person as the father of his regime ’s eldest son ( wife ) . throughout his attempt to counter arafat ’s cases of political corruption and micro-management , abbas lost whatever chance he had to maintain the allegiance of fatah ’s leadership , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . an attempt at a primary to choose fatah candidates backfired , owing to the fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the results .
new york – for four decades , the ledra street of the heartland of nicosia has served as a symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , more than two years ago , a wall that split capital toward north and south . slowly , people not mingled for at least 44 years started to renege on their ties , rediscovering one another . at the time , it was a window on what the future might bring . last week , i visited a ledra wall street crossing , sprouting .
for example , increased momentum could expand southward and spur asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries to join the group . furthermore , the formation of a china-japan-south korea fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . if that were to happen , other countries , australia , new zealand , and , most important , india might seek a leap on the bandwagon . such a reversal of events would be equivalent to the establishment of an east asia free trade area that asean +3 envisioned ten years ago . but if proposals discussed in beijing last month were realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in its level of integration and significance for the global economy .
some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with treatments that are neither as efficient nor as benign as the canonical drugs of the time , and at a cost that rises by a certain ten-100 . compare this with antibiotic treatments associated with , say , urogenital infection , which lasts several weeks at most . while that extra cost may be borne by the rich world ’s health-care systems , it is excess for poor countries , implying no or insufficient , medication . as a result , compliance for tb drugs is especially weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant ( dr. ) tb , which can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes .
of course , market forces play a role as well , too ; but markets are shaped by politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign system of campaign finance and its revolving door between government and industry , politics shapes money . in a country where money trumps democracy , such regulatory regimes have become predictably frequent . for example , the us bankruptcy legislation that privileges derivatives across much of the rest of the world but fails to disband student debt , regardless of how inadequate the provision of education , enriches bankers and impoverishment of much at the bottom . and rising inequality is not inevitable , either . there are market economies that do better , both in terms of gdp growth and rising living standards for most citizens .
us senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton ’s democratic opponent , actually proposes expanding such programs ’ unfunded liabilities . with so few presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces significant risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , or the conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . by contrast , former secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton and the leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed reform of social security and medicare . either way , america would face growth-constraining tax increases and limiting the contributions that public-sector investment can compel the country to its future .
confronted with an election result of whether to rejoin the socialist democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they turned out to be a faustian pact with haider . there might be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was not appealing to schuessel ’s party ( eea ) . but , in all of these countries , the political discourse on all the democratic party has ostracized these racist groups and center-right parties : british conservatives never entered an alliance with the british national front ; the same is happening for france , where french conservatives expelled from their own party local leaders , who are fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s incumbents . this is precisely what the austrian conservative party , under wolfgang schuessel , did not do . austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – certainly in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries .
the congressional budget office projects that , even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will have risen to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion implied by tax reform would have been to raise that to 97 % . a military emergency or an economic downturn would have called for additional debt-financed spending or tax reductions . but even a massive spending program like america ’s 900 billion american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 would have added only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . what is hard to believe is that a fully 97 % debt-to-gdp ratio would make that much more difficult to achieve than a debt-to-gdp ratio of 92 % .
and us president barack obama has congratulated ouattara , stating that the world will “ “ “ hold those who ” to thwart the democratic process and the will of the voters accountable for their actions . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan have called on every party to “ respect ” and completely carry out the verdict of the ivorian people , as declared by an independent electoral commission . the african union , too , has responded that it has been promptly on the table . its peace and the security council met while expressing the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire people and appeals to all stakeholders to accept the results declared by an electoral commission . ”
seoul – has the world entered a new era of chaos ? america ’s vacillating policy toward syria certainly suggests so . indeed , the bitter legacy of invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the financial crisis of 2008 , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even when “ red lines ” ” are crossed , but also seemingly unwilling to bear any serious strain of iran ’s global leadership position . china ’s leaders have shown their lack of interest in pursuing active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system . but , if america is no longer willing to take the lead ?
our research shows that industrial policy had been successful in promoting brazil ’s competitive bioethanol industries . a massive stimulus package prompted by the 1970s following rising oil prices gave way to completely new industries . brazil was attempting to become self-sustaining in a manner similar to the modern effort by other countries . ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the country ’s current light-vehicle fuel demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest companies – expects this share to climb toward more than 80 % by 2020 . but it would not work without the critical role that competition plays .
“ the child ’s creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” “ states one ilo report , ” and his whole mental world is impoverished . ” indian parents sometimes maim their children into beguiling beggars . the sad truth is that families often are the last to protest the exploitation of their children . the ilo contends that children suffer immensely when they are forced to perform as “ small adults . ” indian fathers still sometimes retort debts by committing their children to bonded labor .
but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s capacity to project its political power – for good or ill – will decline during future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is now in crisis . the annual us military budget , which has increased by $ 150 billion since bush took office , will need to start cutting spending in coming years to bring its own budget under control ; america is borrowing power massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks are buying hundreds of billions of dollars of us treasury securities , and are buying hundreds of billions of dollars in us treasury securities . japan alone has foreign-exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , much of it in american treasury bills . because of bush ’s tax cuts and his military expenditures , which brought with them annual budget deficits of $ 500 billion , america will need to raise its taxes and limit budget spending , by , either or not , bush is reelected .
to be sure , there have long been some political efforts to undermine or even replace the us dollar as the dominant global currency . russia ’s theorem of “ eurasia ” frequently tout traditional russian iconography in the use of a fine metal . the most seductive alternative , it seems , has been gold . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a one-word gold dinar ” as an answer to a us-based currency system . so far , though , there have been none of the globally devastating monetary attacks outside the amazonian realm .
of course , a single brief seller can not “ make ” the price of an asset ( unless one is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him the billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a bunch of “ speculators ” decide ( rightly or wrongly ) that a us government debt is overpriced , they could push down its price , thereby forcing up its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . my gain for correctly taking this bearish view yields a record € 1.65 / € 9.1 m : a € 9.1 m i got by selling treasury bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay to repurchase them by june 30 , minus about € 250,000 in interest that i had to pay goldman sachs for a six-month loan payment . voilà – a successful “ brief ” trade . if an attack persists , speculators may force a government to default on its debt if it can find ways to finance its borrowing more cheaply .
doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift its economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks . slowing chinese economic growth this year was the result almost entirely of a deliberate decision to deleverage the us banking system , cut local governments ’ borrowing , reduce over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices through tightening monetary policy . all the path taken by xi ’s policymakers has indicated that he would not permit china to rein in further weakening the us economy next year , even if that means accepting bigger budget deficits or easing off on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening . all of these austerity policies might easily be mitigated or reversed . to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the us government and the central bank can offset the effect of the economy by stimulating domestic demand .
this was the age of village blacksmith , weaver , napoleon , and a cobbler . africa ’s slaves were used to grow cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped to english mills . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . the finished cloth was exported to the rest of the world . as of the eighteenth-century period , shipping technology improved enough to enable the emergence of global supply chains .
such obscurantism only creates a stultifying uniformity culture . like the grass-roots blade of grass-roots beneath a stone , culture knows how and in which direction to seek light . i have no idea what “ the progressive direction of an advanced culture ” is at hand , but advanced cultures have played no part in a ccp-inspired “ blitzweeds campaign , ” the “ anti-rightist movement , ” or the “ elimination of demons and wicked heresy campaigns . ” will it be “ invariably represented ” by the lone political party ? it need not be “ represented . ”
in 2006 , president ollanta obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to july . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when he signed the anti-gay bill on law in 2014 . other leaders , from gaahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , spoke in the same vein . these official attitudes have created significant suffering for africa ’s gay and lesbos . indeed , the price of homophobia for gays in many african countries is being painstakingly obvious : legal penalties , social ostracism , and mob justice .
perhaps more important , they have an inadequate voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . still , it seems that a share of china , at around 30 % , will be the largest among the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decisions . that underscores a key worry among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it turn out to be the people ’s bank of china and brazil , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda at the institution of the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that it lacks developing countries ’ access to domestic capital for infrastructure .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meetings in october , the fund ’s then-chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by indicating that , more recently , governments have tended to underestimate the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists actually know many of the consequences of fiscal policy , at least far more than they have been used to know . they typically assumed that one would cut public spending by an extra 50 cents in the short run ; according to blanchard , an effective outcomes in current conditions of around $ 0.90-1.90-1.70 . until the 1980 ’s , it routinely predicted that the so-called “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp change to gdp – was stable and bigger than one . that is a large gap , but also a perplexing finding : how can so much uncertainty arise ?
for far too long , working-class citizens have been used as pawns on a global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full implications of playing the game . worse still , there have been proposals about their actual use of them . but , because the public is educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , that attitude will become increasingly difficult to sustain . military planners considering the use of nuclear weapons presumably gave scant thought to those living in the cities on their target lists . at the same time , people worldwide must stop talking about another as untrustworthy enemy .
moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken advantage of growing public frustration with the eu itself . many europeans opposed the idea of “ more europe , ” ” ” the mantra of eu traditionalists in two major party families , the center-right european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats ( spd ) . together , these groups have managed to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given that large segments of europeans are unconvinced that the worst is coming to an end . at the same time , the influence of widening disparities between the eu and its stumbling “ north , ” with france at the center ( but headed south ) , was already apparent . and the massive prosperity gap between the “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to define voting patterns .
today , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , most of them in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya . they raise their spectacles filled with a finest scotch , which has been sprinkled with fine powder . not gold powder , just as the lesser moguls might offer , nor would a tiny cocaine . no , this is far rarer and costlier : it is pulverized by the white rhino horn . a half-century ago , white rhinos were abounded in africa .
dubai – the global financial crisis taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies became . now , if we are to prevent isis from teaching us that lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not quash the fires of fanaticism by force alone . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit an ideology that confers on the extremists ’ power and restore the hope and dignity of those who recruit . isis surely can – and will – defeat militarily by an international coalition that now produces and which the uae actively supports . during today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are only as interdependent for our own security , as is apparent in the current struggle to defeat isis .
earlier this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on `` information asymmetry . '' we showed that this notion is ill-founded : even small information imperfections can have profound effects on how the economy has behaved . for two hundred years , economists had used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – that is , that all participants share an equal and transparent understanding of the relevant factors . they knew that information was imperfect , but hoped that a world with temperate information imperfections would be akin to a world with perfectly perfect information . so , what works , and why did the us commit it ?
the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( of greed ) did not lead to a society ’s well-being ; it did n’t even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . that certainly did n’t serve homeowners losing their homes , the workers who had lost out to work , the pensioners who saw their retirement funds vanish , or the taxpayers who had paid hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . we are accustomed to thinking about the government ’s transferring money from the very well to the poor . under the threat of a complete collapse of the whole system , the safety net intended to help hapless individuals fulfill living ‘ exigencies ’ were extended generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-borrowing firms . never before have so much money been doled out from so many to so few .
most importantly , the us constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , say , an easily reversible “ non-bloc ” resolution adopted by ukraine ’s parliament in 2010 to join a military alliance . this approach would be in line with the principle that us president barack obama highlighted when announcing last month ’s latest round of sanctions against russia , that ukraine must be permitted to “ chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – divided between an inherently antagonistic identity that living together peacefully . ukraine ’s position , of course , could change in the future , with its cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus in order to abandon its neutrality . the practical outcome , ukraine remaining unaligned in its military and security terms , would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole .
in the years ahead , the most important fiscal task facing east european and nis governments will be to reduce the size of social spending to a more reasonable portion of gdp . political elites -- both at home and from abroad -- will have to direct public attention to the looming fiscal crisis . in any viable long-term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should decline ; the retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ones especially ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need . political elites -- both at home and abroad -- will have to place their emphasis on the looming fiscal crisis . in any viable long-term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced ; the retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ones especially ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need .
but that may well follow the second stage , in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration begin to compensate for the one-time structural effects of new technologies being widely adopted . and , in the third phase , the possible onset of higher inflation may pick up policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive effects that make a bad situation much worse . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty regarding the timing of such a scenario . focusing too narrowly on scientists ’ cyclical rather than structural alone could pose serious risks to future economic well-being and to financial stability . but , either way , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their inflation-targeting outlook is subject to a broader range of dynamic possibilities than they have considered so far .
similar goes the same goes for implementing the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy-efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and among all parts of the un ’s agenda , rather than simply in discrete areas pertaining to “ female ” issues . the un ’s manifold agendas include peace and security ; sustainable development ; human rights act ; and humanitarianism must be structurally integrated into one strategic flashpoint , rather than remaining rigid , self-contained institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be deployed in the field to crack departmental bottlenecks and confront vital challenges . groups would operate within a common mandate across all un agencies and be led by un operations directors in each country .
for india , the costs adds up to nearly $ 11 trillion in exchange-rate money . the most expensive countries where ending poverty would be the democratic republic of the congo and nigeria . in the drc , 77 % of the world ’s population is extremely poor and falling a dollar short of the poverty line , on average . with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in the most recent survey of this century , india is home to the largest number of impoverished people in the planet . each is on average 38 cents each day below the extreme-poverty line .
indeed , at a time when oda is not determined by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than the creation of markets and guaranteeing property rights . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage a short-run orientation toward economic policymaking that limits long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . more fiscal space can be created by improving governance and bolstering the tax base , and , for the poorest countries , by achieving incremental steady official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . in recent decades , however , developed-country macroeconomic policies have become more pro-cyclical , largely exacerbating the volatility of international financial markets and commodity prices .
coca cultivation has been slashed by one-quarter in the last five years , and cocaine seizures have nearly doubled . the “ white lady ” is seducing a constantly increasing number of europeans , with remaining in a state of denial will only make matters worse . european leaders need serious about curbing their cocaine problems . cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to the point that the united states has started a major campaign against vendors and consumers of cracking cocaine in its inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in andes . but now demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or in decline .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , with american democratic institutions clearly under strain . now , just 20 % of americans trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” ” while trust in congress has fallen by less than 9 % . according to some pessimists , the american constitution has not been designed to meet the country ’s challenges so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship . among congressional republicans , notably a “ take-no-prisoners ” campaign , they undergird the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right wish . nevertheless , state and local governments still trust a majority of voters and possess under the tenth amendment of america ’s constitution to strengthen democratic institutions .
new york – the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to do business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . for example , for more than a decade now , germany ’s police forces , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr have ordering uniforms from a state-owned plant in slovakia of dzherzinsky , named after the father of the red terror and soviet-era kgb ’s founder , feliks dzherzinsky . by treating lukashenka as favored a business partner with equal fear that the eu is seeking to insulate it as an “ international pariah , ” european hypocrisy stands naked . to be sure , similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound . this is particularly true when there is scope to save or make money .
bond yields throughout southern europe were on the rise , with a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear of cloaked governments in european capitals . at the same time , the european central bank had unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) in long-term refinancing operation that pulled the european banking system back from the brink . at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) cumulative refinancing operation that had pulled the european banking system back from the brink . at the same time , it was sorely lacking in political leadership . there would have been a “ fiscal treaty ” under way , which would augment the stability and growth pact , and that arguably entail automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members follow through on these rules . finally , decisive action was taken in december .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado – the stock exchanges , which provides strong protections for investors in the newly listed firms – supports this view . their sole recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms out of the swap . but stock exchanges , too , have limits , particularly in brazil . in the absence of robust courts , they can not prosecute to enforce their regulations . the novo mercado dealt with this problem by subjecting disputes involving its newly-listed firms to be prosecuted .
new york – january has traditionally been a time for judging from the developments of the last year , to anticipate what the new one has in store . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , though the us may be at a turning point for the better politically , those data that have emerged over the past month do not paint a promising image of the global economy ’s short-term prospects . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not amount to all-out war .
to be sure , a simultaneous shift in several countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher-level education , with large concomitant productivity gains , could sap the competitiveness of an economy that made none such efforts . but , again , this scenario is highly unlikely , at least for the foreseeable future . in fact , the proliferation of highly specialized universities in europe has failed to buttress economic growth or employment . and the transformation of such conventional universities into specialized institutes of science and technology in the soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert economic catastrophe in those economies . but , again , this is inconsistent with traditional trade dynamics in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another .
reform did not require a state of emergency , as is frequently argued . first , all occurred with a profound crisis of the social-welfare state : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , low inflation and devaluation . absent a severe crisis , no substantial reform was likely . second , a change in government through the election prompted reforms and delivered democratic legitimacy . third , reforms needed to give a strong leader .
moreover , because companies greatly enhanced their operating efficiency and lengthening maturities on their debt , they need many less precautionary savings than they did during the past . but , rather than deploy their plentiful cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets , which they have been very hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted , many corporate firms have so far preferred ( or pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to their shareholders . non-financial firms have run a mix of resilience and agility that runs sharply against prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide , which have yet to confront an adequate legacy of excessive leverage . indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , the corporate sector ’s cash holdings in the united states have piled up one-quarter after a quarter , reaching all-time highs and making very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . one looks at just that , however , the corporate sector in the advanced economies widespread , and in the us , especially , is as strong as it has been in many years .
perhaps the most compelling case for all is that of indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that was starker in asia , despite the global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , which recently vied with venezuela for leadership of “ america in the fall ” ” ” ” cheering section . purely from the guise of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic powerhouse , whose primary liability is the risk that an evil regime twin for the north would crumble and inundate it with starving refugees . the same is true for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing prominence in the middle east , and energy politics ; nato membership in the european union membership bid ; and ties to ethnic cousins across central asia . indonesia , too , has established resilience not only economically , but also as a nation .
and , worst of all , they should be perceived as being soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , commit mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens . the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place heavy emphasis on promoting values , are particularly vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their inherent military power . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria or halting diminishing , human suffering . no state that aspires to win back the support or cooperation of others can afford to see fit with unambiguous double standards .
ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there has been a fined by america ’s reinforces suspicions that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . that might be good for a corrupt few , but it is bad for cambodia . the last thing cambodia needs is also risk economic reprisal for helping chinese firms dodge american tariffs . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights threatens its tariff-free access to european markets , provided through the bloc ’s “ whatever but arms ” regime . but that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s government plans to do .
the global economy risks getting stuck in a “ new mediocre ” – a protracted period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . and , worldwide , some important economies continue to fight deflation . if adopted by the g20 leaders in november , the measures agreed by the leaders assembled at the g20 in november are implemented , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income . to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . more than 200 million citizens are unemployed , up from nearly 50 million .
it further rightly indicates that nato ’s strategic political and military goals could be achieved jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms-reduction verified by the nonproliferation and arms-control treaty . so which eu relations should nato have with its partners ? the albright report seeks to address these questions in a balanced manner . it approves policies that capture accurately the relationship between “ out of area operations ” and nato members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . should it undergo further simultaneous transformations and eu enlargement ?
one is north korea , whose recent behavior was smart and deceptive . japan formally endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world , but it relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent , and wants to avoid becoming subject to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) . japan worries that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence would be diminished if america decreases its nuclear force to parity with china . but it is a mistake to believe that extended deterrence depends on gdp parity in numbers of nuclear weapons . northern koreans violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with its greatest possible leverage , is most concerned about the regime ’s collapse in north korea and therefore the threat of chaos on its borders .
berkeley – back in the late 1990s , in america , at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , repealing the regulatory separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging a more aggressive buildup and use of derivatives . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why did n’t that then ? my first school of thought , broadly that of the united states republican party , had been that financial regulation was bad because all regulation was bad . the second , broadly speaking , of the us democratic party was rather more complicated and was based on four observations : · in the global economy ’s industrial core , at least so far , it had more than 60 years since financial disruptions had less than a minor impact on overall levels of output and employment .
it is grotesque that so many people who oppose such “ socialist ” policies are still persuaded to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” a concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to the liberals , of course , but it should not alienate moderate voters , either , because more equality would be good for the economy . and it might even persuade some anger , impoverished trump ’s supporters to recognize that his own pseudo-populism is not about helping the far-left folks in the rust belt cities and the rural hinterlands . this is the question of whether to make even more money on the very few . the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy that everyone else loses .
as the clock ticks down , a bad outcome has become more and more likely . similarly , trump used to think that he could bully iran by abandoning its joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing heavy sanctions . but iranians were responding by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump could not afford a full-scale war and a colossal oil-price spike that would result from it . but neither wants to be a “ chicken , ” ” because that would undercut their domestic political standing and empowers the other side . still , with no agreement by year to end , a clash is likely .
but the scaf now appears to have become aware that , in a leaderless scenario , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attack by rivals . political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and a lack of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . in the past two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and – more recently – coptic community has clearly reflected a change of attitude : you need immunity , guidance , and protection from the us . moreover , the scaf has carefully weighed policymakers and eroded its relative weakness , limited capacity , notorious opportunism , and common-sense inconsistency . as a result , there is a growing belief within the scaf that its three “ minimum ” demands have become both futile and insufficient .
paying their interest to them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than america receives from the rest of the world . this requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and making foreign goods more expensive for american consumers . higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which , in turn , weaken incentives and erode economic growth . even at the end of the decade , the american people will have to pay an amount equivalent to more than one-third of personal-income tax revenue simply to pay the interest on the national debt . with us government bonds having become larger , foreign investors now hold more than half of that amount .
ahmadinejad stands for his policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that he will need to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud but still indispensable for resolving almost all the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and the confrontation in afghanistan , pakistan , lebanon , and palestine . iran is also a key player in cooling its hotspots in the caucasus and central asia . indeed , aside from matters of domestic politics and the issue of domestic freedom , a choice among the major biden hinges on the question of whether iran should seek greater international integration . a policy of opening the country would thus quickly put the regime ’s existential at risk .
if ever there was a country destined to be the poster child of the new economic development orthodoxy , it was mexico . during the boom years , exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and inward foreign direct investment tripled . but , where it counts – in total factor productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment . since 1996 , per capita economic growth had averaged well below 1.5 % , and total factor productivity had stagnated or declined . perhaps the most visible gains were on the external front .
and bilateral or regional trade deals may well chip away at some of the barriers within the current global system . after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever-larger share of global output ( now about two thirds ) , and deeper expansions requires meaningful change in the existing agreements . for starters , a fundamental problem is that the nature of global trade makes steady progress , with existing agreements having only limited adaptations . even if asia succeeded by relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa , could realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
most of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings identify tissue injury in different ways and generate signals that trips to the spinal cord and from there to the brain . for many years , researchers believed that these signals traveled along a handful of well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brain , called the process of thalamus . a contemporary non-medical writer had described qualities of intense pain as including extreme inadequacies ; abilities for annihilate complex thoughts and other sensibilities ; and strong aversion to objectification . out of touch , researchers believed , signals went on to confront elements of the brain ’s cortex , which has managed the body awareness ; and somehow the cortex that has transformed them into conscious experiences . she reminds physicians that , for a person suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else is a potent negative emotions .
the first stop was the european union , in the late 1980 ’s , where two old french socialists , jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the european commission ’s president and assistant , respectively ) had led the way . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the key event that set in motion the developments that will ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movements as globally natural . when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists had done abrupt volte-face and embraced globally financial liberalization . then it was the turn of the organization of economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another fellow chmen who served as the bank ’s governor under mitterrand .
de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric aided , one had to say , by fumbling the rebellions of the rebels , defined the primacy of the state . within a 15 minutes of a general ’s face , 40 army units in algeria were ruling out a loyalty . the next day , while de gaulle had sided with the gadgets , but was soundly and full of energy . the men at the barricades were persuaded to abandon their own stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or fleeing to spain . the defeat of the military revolt was first instances in which the paris republican authority had paper over pieds noirs who helped to bring down the fourth republic .
has the israelis been really looking for a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of an recognized palestinian state to take israel into the international criminal tribunal for war crimes ? if not , why are they such ham-fisted so ham-fisted ? the diplomatic promotion of palestine has offered him a lifeline . it has repeatedly been revealed that military intimidation of civilians does not break their morale and turn them against their own leaders , however terrifying the regime . israel seems to make the same mistake for others .
the un will play a central role in rebuilding the working government in that country , as well as in coordinating humanitarian aid to the afghan people . the un ’s growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy over the global fight against terrorism and helps reassure many countries that this is a genuine international effort , and not only america is acting alone . the un will play a central role in reforming the working government in that country and in coordinating the humanitarian assistance of the afghan people . while these seem like a grab-bag of achievements , it highlights a unified message : the world community finds new ways of cooperation , even against a backdrop of terrorism and a global recession . while these seem to be a grab-bag of achievements , they highlight a unified message : the world community finds new ways of cooperation , even against a backdrop of terrorism and a global recession .
here , brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . aside from barely any practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in the venezuelan and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in the global electoral marketplace that diverges very sharply from what is typically called “ neo-liberalism ” or the washington consensus . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year is like a society-wide match between the big teams , where one-candidate supporters and others distinguish solely in the colors of their shirts , as those of the strongest teams accept the “ rules of the game ” and even tactics . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the colors of the electoral landscape are closely related to one reality : the “ irrelevance of politics ” owing to its “ financiarisation . ” in other words , there is no longer an uphill battle between different projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that could raise voters ’ emotions .
but perhaps the most important change needs to come from within the media sector itself . because the presence of journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ employees , freelancers , and audiences , such organizations should deliver on the theme . with attacks on the press increasing , the old approach of prideful silence no longer makes sense . if journalists use their platforms to inform the world about the dangers they and their colleagues face , the world will have to listen . violence against journalists has historically been an topic that has left behind the headlines .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders achieved the millennium development goals ( mdg ) of cutting the proportion of the world ’s poor to half its 1990 level – the five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes underscore the enduring threat of extreme poverty worldwide . after all , extreme poverty is not a unchanging attribute of a rigid group ; it is a condition that puts billions of vulnerable people at risk . yet , still , the world bank ’s poverty line of $ 1.25 a day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , measured in measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ ’ ’ poverty-reduction target , is not the only relevant threshold . yet , despite their weaknesses , revenue measures are helpful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide .
and an abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private-sector investment spending under a check . and the structural reforms that these economies must boost their potential growth will be implemented far too slowly . the 2014 outlook is as dampened as we have been by longer-term constraints . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse impact on productivity growth of years of underinvestment in human and physical capital . while the eurozone ’s tail risks are smaller , its fundamental problems remain unaddressed : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of government debt ; weak competitiveness and slow reduction of unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does n’t help ) ; extremely tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging .
but realizing that value is a long-term proposition , and we must recognize it . more immediately , to wean the gas-liquefaction into a market in europe and elsewhere , the gas-liquefaction plant costing some € 10 billion must be built , and israeli investors have already expressed interest . yet these figures must be placed with the eu ’s gloomy overall energy image – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy wealth , and the funding required to support it , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is only € 23 trillion .
syriza is hardly alone in greece in blaming the eu for its country ’s woes . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s populist oligarchs , are happy to oblige . thus , most television channels speak of a bailout deal just as tsipras does : like the proximate cause of austerity , a product of the neoliberal dogma . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsessions with a degree of discipline , not their country ’s profligacy . new democracy and pasok do much the same , attacking the eu , “ with speculators , ” and hedge funds , respectively , anyone who might deflect attention from its own responsibility to crises .
lebanon is far too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see their local clients ease the “ lebanese front ” burden before their own grievances are addressed . nor is hezbollah keen to see an end to israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable , independent military force that it had constructed with iranian and syrian support . but america ’s dwindling leverage may not match that country ’s “ axis of evil ” influence . israel ’s shift of policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a potent message to the american people that they should not miss the lebanese shia do just fine . it was , after all , tiny qatar that brokered lebanon as a domestic settlement , egypt that has mediated the gaza cease-fire , and with turkey facilitating israeli-syrian talks
but with clarida input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflation trends than on official unemployment levels and its implications under traditional models . moreover , whereas the fed ’s own staff seems to believe that america ’s gdp rate of potential growth has been very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , appears open to the notion that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will allow for a somewhat stronger noninflationary growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making below-target core inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing for below-target inflation during a expansionary phase . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed might remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 . and though the review is still at its early stages , the fed already appears to have embraced the idea that it would be possible to keep inflation above 2 % without immediately triggering tightening .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of hundreds of workers ’ heroic efforts to cool off a plant ’s reactors ; protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusions ( estimated at $ 128.5 trillion by hyperkilometer global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the costs of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . on the top of this , there is the option of health-care costs that result from a cut in radioactivity . it is governments – and therefore taxpayers and bondholders , too – that finance the nuclear industry . in addition , the supposed “ cost-saving ” ” ” of the nuclear industry never includes the price tag for either direct and indirect governmental subsidies , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and the emergency clean-up and safeguards of impacted communities when disasters occur , everyone again at the expense of taxpayers . all of these hidden costs make the price of nuclear energy higher than that of shifting to renewables and improving energy efficiency .
as a more pragmatic matter , it would also back the trump camp with yet another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” but clear rules of engagement , though necessary , are essential . otherwise , they would stiffen debate with each other . doing so would run counter to what us universities stand for . the most important principle that it would adopt is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone .
new york – like an inmate on the death row , europe has received yet another last-minute stay of execution . it has survived , on a slightly more difficult footing , if not longer . markets are celebrating , as they had after each of the other ’s four previous “ european crisis ” summits , until they come to understand that vital problems have yet to be tackled . there was good news at this summit : europe ’s leaders finally understood that a bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to swiss banks to rescue sovereigns , and bailed out sovereigns to rescue the banks will not work . likewise , they now recognize that bailout loans that give new firewalls over its other official creditors are worsening the positions of private investors , who will simply want even higher interest rates .
munich – the german constitutional court delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . thousands of germans appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union , which bars monetary financing of eurozone governments and imposes substantial german risk on the “ one million ” population , as german taxpayers do . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as may have done , the court demanded that the european court address its views . for now , the court has declared that it completely approves the plaintiffs ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary law . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to purchase , regardless of unlimited quantities of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , provided the afflicted countries subscribe to the rules of europe ’s rescue fund , the european stability mechanism .
and capital-gains tax has fallen by more than 50 % since the 1980s . when investment is at upstream basic research , the spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes provide a social payoff . but more cases may require the creation of alternative incentives . to build support for labor-intensive investment through higher-risk innovations , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return , by channeling profits toward the public-innovation fund to finance the next surge in technology . for example , some of the government ’s investments in tesla might have been reneged on the stock exchange ( or royalties ) and used to cover the losses from its investment in solyndra .
complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership teams of its own ; and europe will seated a new generation of politicians who did not embark on decades of compromises and reforms . conversely , germany will once again be elected in a political environment of anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . unless the ecb ’s next leaders come to power , europe alone will be at risk . yet there is a broad consensus that europe will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . clearly , with interest rates at or near the zero lower bound , more accommodative y/fiscal-policy coordination is bound to .
facebook has estimated that russian content on its network , including polling and paid ads , has reached 126 million americans , about 40 % of the nation ’s population . we should recall earlier accusations by russia from the west ’s role in fomenting a “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgian . in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings have failed for the want of effective leadership , with traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand . indeed , for their own ends , those regimes have started embittered social media . all of us have heard the allegations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states .
but , of course , he is not immune to miscalculation , either . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad was relying on khamenei with financial and political backing to win the presidency . today , however , khamenei profoundly regretful about this choice . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei is also abusing the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november . ahmadinejad has disavoys his orders , is attempting to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament .
but it is not at all clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and treat their country ’s own long-term self interest . the point , after all , is not a single one out of china . and it is not only the developing and emerging-market countries that must rethink their hands-on approach to the world . at the same time , the us needs to do so as it does to work as it does . similar questions are being felt in india and brazil .
some people are working harder , applying their intelligence more skillfully , or simply lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time . but i do n’t see what alternative political-economic arrangements could compel individuals to run relative wealth in proportion to their relative moral or other merit . nor should the us fear the obvious fact that some people would be richer than others . the problems that could be addressed include those at the center of poverty and social insurance — of providing safety net to non-citizens of inequality . but on the level of individual societies , i am confident that rising inequality will loom as a serious political-economic problem .
not everyone at the sec is as rational as stein . there is also some friction among different regulators within the us , and surely need more coordination across national boundaries – including with europe . more broadly , however , her point is that we need the fsoc to do its job , by looking for and assessing all kinds of potential systemic risk . that needs to be carried out as technicalities , rather than as part of the political process . the real danger , however , is that powerful business lobbies , working through members of congress , push back hard against the fsoc and its mandate .
when the results were announced , their euphoria became overwhelming . and , indeed , upon learning from his victory , iohannis immediately paying a state visit to king michael i ( hohenzollern prince until he renounced his title in 2011 ) . iohannis may , too , have benefited , to some extent from an association with voters ’ minds with the german hohenzollern kings who had ruled romania wisely and with the dedication of more than 80 years . in bucharest ’s university square this celebration , celebration recalled the power of the energy of 1989 ; it was the sound of a prominent awami electorate ; conscious of its previous mistakes , and poised for a fresh start . a final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was a younger generation in which westworld connections imbued an eagerness to see real democratic breakthroughs in romania .
while tens of millions of chinese young people display an impressive inherent innate abilities , the country its system of higher education generates abysmal employment cultivating its own talents . for most , the curriculum is so far obsolete , and skewed toward a rote , theorist ’s rote learning at the expense of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills . education in the social sciences and humanities is particularly tenuous , owing to a lack of investment in such disciplines and overweening political control of curricula . as a result , chinese graduation from us colleges and universities has learned relatively little about the outside world in fields like the anthropology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will not be able to generate sufficient highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest .
us imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment . japan has committed to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . these reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . finally , global economic conditions will compel an even more restructuring upon japan . while export expansion delivered during this century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will result in increased productivity in japan in the coming years .
tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy in view of its proximity to violence-prone algeria . both countries have combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job creation in manufacturing employment ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development . yet it provides no short-term answer to terrorism , for a few reasons : it fails to supply an ideology compelling enough to compete against the kind of fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in a moslem world . i am convinced that the west can learn enormously about what to do by studying policies pursued in the world ’s only two mid-stage of development moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each successfully dodge a prey to islamic fundamentalism . the egalitarian development of this sort is the only viable answer to the problems of the moslem globally .
new haven – yet another in a prolonged string of negative inflation surprises is at hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer-price index ) that excludes food and energy – first when it was scheduled to go forward . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was essentially unchanged , hold , at just 1.7 percentage points above its year-earlier level . for an american economy widely presumed to be nearing the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes just as a rude awakening – especially for the us federal reserve , which has pulled out all stops intended to get inflation back to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues in japan .
our assumptions about the relative prosperity of asia and the west should also be rethought . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen observes the origins of the indian scale of democratic dialogue to the twelfth century bbc emperor alain juppe . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp ; today , the figure is 3 % . nevertheless , following the industrial revolution of northwestern europe , colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china ’s opium wars , their relative positions switched . likewise , he contrasts the religiosity preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar in 1590 ’s with a seminal inquisition that pitted heretics in europe at around the same time .
so , in britain , japan and the u.s. , something more foundational had to be in place before financial markets got into business . japan had no corporate law until elaborate business finance started developing in the late nineteenth century . its core protective regulatory institution outside finance , federal securities laws did not fall to levels until the 1930 's , decades after american financial markets had grown to funding america 's economy . yet that sequence is the opposite of what one might have expected : only after financial markets had developed did those with stakes in them for better regulation to protect investors . britain and japan seem to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later .
in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption , rather than investment . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . but , by 2007 , greece had been exporting above 14 % of gdp at the level of what it was producing , the biggest such gap in europe , more than twice that of spain and 55 % , respectively , than ireland ’s . in spain and ireland , although the gulf reflected a construction boom ; european accession suddenly gave people access to far cheaper mortgages . insufficient spending was never an issue at all .
well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when issues at hand are technical and have no heightened distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discounting of future costs . independent central banks offer an important illustration of this . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians , and must provide accountants when the targets are missed . true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by reducing the discretionary powers of their elected representatives . it might be up to elected politicians to determine an inflation target , but the means they deploy to achieve that goal are left to populist technocrats at the central bank .
first and foremost , it is important to realize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not only the central bank ’s problem to correct . sustaining a competitive currency requires either a surge in domestic saving relative to investment or a fall in national expenditure relative to income . that means making much of a responsibility for the fiscal authorities : seeking a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for real exchange-rate depreciation . otherwise , the gains from competitiveness would offset rising inflation . while the central bank bears a good part of its responsibilities , it needs support from other parts of the government , most notably from the finance ministry .
just as enthusiastically as the worldwide mass media has received her choice , it is nonetheless exceedingly difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – let alone physically “ flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also , in terms of fantasy sex . one may be reasonably certain that jolie ’s decisions will alter the roles available to her behavior as an actress . but the true significance of jolie ’s story is its context : a surge in female and male youth , in very different settings worldwide that emphasizes narration of her own experiences involving their bodies , events that , like breast cancer , have once been shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or guilt . indeed , jolie has refused to treat mastectomy as dire or tragic , or , as has made her “ fewer of a woman ” in any form . there ’s something about the narrative , which is sacrificing his fetishized breasts for the sake of her children , with her husband staying within her side – that is deeply reassuring to women in the western culture .
private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting strain on public finances would compel austerity , thereby de-legitimizing consumer demand – and causing yet more damage to firms ’ balance sheets . it is this danger that sets practical and policy limits to flexible exchange rates . it is this danger that sets practical and policy limits on flexible exchange rates . huge net central-bank reserves may be helping to ease that process , too . some depreciation may be managed by most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could be triggered if the domestic currency loses too rapidly .
free speech is more firmly protected by law in the us than any other part of the world . but the cancellation of barr ’s show was , of course , not legal choices . entertainment companies or the mass media are , in effect , sensitive to public opinion . in fact , the limits of free speech are not just legal . people tend to be fired , for commercial purposes , when something they said they were perceived as offensive to a large number of people .
new york – in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced an arab human development report , written in the name of the un development programme ( undp ) , and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world as lagging behind other regions at some key measures , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as economic and social development . no significant muslim majority has a per capita majority . indeed , this phenomenon has been as noted within the muslim world as it is . disturbing trends , such as the youth-led ( urban ) movement combined with high youth unemployment rates – reaching nearly 40 % in some places – highlight potentially explosive societal conditions .
but , given the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their real influence . then came the end of the cold war , when all europeans adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . from the perspective of us security , europe remained dependent on the us for the sake of america . institutionally , this division of labor was manifested in nato and the eu . on both the economic and technological fronts , however , europeans regained national sovereignty .
but tudor did not stop with prolix 's apologies . he soon sponsored unveiling of the bust by investigating israeli premier yeitzak rabin in brasov in transylvania . “ the jews " were not his enemy by any more , he said ; so , too , worked for him . for the occasion , tudor wore a yarmulke while talking about his " philo-semitism " for more than two hours . he announced that he had recruited eyal arad , a knowledgeable israeli boy , into running his entire presidential campaign .
and independent investigative journalists across africa have often exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business dealings . in kenya , for example , a prominent local paper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the us ethics and anti-corruption commission , had received suspicious payment payments from the national youth service . additional investigations into nys have uncovered more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . but those with power know how to fight back are not pulling their punches . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is being undermined , suppressed , and even dismantled .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is a market ( as opposed to a state ) that identifies and promotes “ unicorns ” . nonetheless , china has already started to build a more innovative manufacturing and internet-driven retail sector ; indeed , the state may still play a role in fostering innovation . china ’s economy succeeded through trial and error , and the lesson of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process , to be used to power the next stage of economic reform . but , just as the government determines how to offload its massive shares ’ holdings in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that such efforts finance equity – not leverage – thereby enhancing the market equilibrium and resilience .
his abrupt departure because of illness might produce a political vacuum that could become conducive to a power grab of one form or another , such as a military coup . strict adherence to constitutional provisions in any of such eventuality is an imperative . here , the lack of a free media is particularly alarming , and does n’t bode well for a free and fair election process . it is crucial that the opposition can freely nurture its message and target prospective voters – a point not missed out on the chávez regime as it attempts to curtail further resentment ’s ability to reach out to voters . the recent attack on globovision , venezuela ’s sole surviving independent station , stands out in this regard .
over the course of the 1990 ’s , private investors looked to large , lumbering central banks as cash cows , long money , and short for financial acumen . george soros once made billions of dollars off the bank of england in just $ 100 hour . what a difference a decade makes . his basic strategy was the standard one : bet against any central bank that is trying to resist incoherent macroeconomic policies was the standard . traders were not winning every battle ; of course , they were .
yet , contrary to expectations , growth in household consumption has so far remained lackluster , with businesses failing to ramped up investment . over the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp has barely exceeded the level it attained at the end of last year ; and much of the increase has been fueled by goods manufactured but not yet sold . to be sure , american consumers remain scarred by the crisis . but there is another problem : within their homes and jobs , the feeling of agitation about the future is missing , despite all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now envelops them . the prevailing explanation , a brutally freezing cold winter , acts so thinly that they can grasp at it .
while some of this funding will come from public budgets , the overwhelming majority will need to provide financing to the private sector . furthermore , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its low-broadband internet network , up to international standards will require substantial investment , which an improved regulatory framework could help spur . regulatory reform is also required to boost support for startup companies , an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflected in difficulties that such firms face when acquiring venture capital . to succeed , over € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation combines heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . nowhere is the need for overcoming financing bottlenecks more apparent than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states as the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy would overtake that of america in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that , in 2010 , china actually surpassed the us . but a recent co-authored study by robert mundell , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that us global economic leadership would pass to china . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income using a basket of international prices applied to all economies .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensibility and vulnerability . the u.s. may become less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy , but its oil is a fungible commodity , and its american economy remains sensitive to shocks from sudden changes in world prices . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockades of the strait of hormuz , could still impose harm on america and its allies . rebalancing energy imports and exports involves nothing less than a first line of autonomy . but one should not jump in any conclusions .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . the amazon and indonesian rainforests are being burned , and climate catastrophes like typhoons , wildoes , and storm surges are intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
but this does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon . a downturn is complicated : an economic crisis , combined with a financial crisis . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . the bottom may be near , perhaps until the end of the year . hitting bottom is no reason to abandon strongly measures enacted to revitalize the global economy .
tackling the world ’s environmental and ecological problems and improving the lot of those left behind will require increased public action , such as that i have overseen in my roles at the world bank , the un , and britain ’s government . in seizing the opportunities of globalization , firms have often neglected the developed-world ’s workers they left behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation . in my own career , i have seen firsthand that business-fueled growth fueled competition in a globalizing world may do far more to combat poverty , hunger , and disease than government-sponsored programs alone . but , in doing so , it will also demand more participation in the business sector .
but , of course , it would be an incendiary move . many leavers would view this as an anti-democratic upheaval . and because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a brexit step would necessitate a new plebiscite cooking remain against a possible deal . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his disparched-earth opponents into overcoming their differences to stop a no-deal brexit . but whatever happens , the more pragmatic center is being squeezed from british politics .
to support such efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative for ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance and ensuring that sdg 14 ’s full potential is realized . such a proxy must be given sufficient resources to do the job . the ocean has suffered from decades of abuses and neglect . the us has funded its destruction , with no regard for the consequences . it has been treated as a free-for-all bin and racto-the-bottom buffet .
these groups were dealt a body blow two years earlier by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which has abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . the bjp government ’s greatest victims ’s neglect of farm farming have been the country ’s small and marginal agricultural laborers , along with landless farm labor . daily wage workers , traditionally repaid in cash , lost their millions of jobs because the replacement currency did not print adequate quantities . when their crops collapsed , many farmers and agricultural laborers set low by a crushing burden of debt ( often incurred at heavily indebted rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . that is just the last year for which official figures on farmer suicides are available , but media reports suggest that the numbers have grown since coming .
and there is one clear measure of how we are performing at this task : the rate of extinction . bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity ’s massive and irreversible environmental impact . for every 10,000 bird species , we might see ten or perhaps even 100 of all unknown species of animals , plant manufacturers , or fungi . with its six billion or so humans and count – as well as our individual consumption – we confront enormous challenges in using our natural resources sustainably . for this reason , some colleagues and i calculated the rate at which bird species became extinct during the recent past , and rates at which they would likely become extinct in the future .
and , last , perhaps most important , they allow their users to perceive patterns and opportunities to discover through traditional means . in fact , when it comes to energy efficiency , as measured in terms of the number of computations per power generating “ unstructured ” data , humans brain performs roughly 10,000 times as much as the single best man-made machines . with systems grow in stature and complexity , conventional computer architecture appears to be reaching its limits , as the number of power it consumes and influence between components becomes increasingly burdensome . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has a lot to educate us . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – as measured in terms of the number of computations per power generating “ unstructured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times as much on average than even the best-man-made machines .
munich , debates are now underway to establish a systems of common deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with both the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the risk of runs at banks in times of crisis . while this argument is true , the critics emphasize the mismatch of risk , because of the high proportion of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries . while the proportion of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries is only 2 % , the ecb ’s most recent paper published the international monetary fund ’s statistics , as of last april , shows a gdp share of 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece . to address this risk mismatch and move ahead of a roadmap , balance sheets will have to be cleaned before considering the next step .
that sets a dangerous precedent ; for it creates a powerful incentive , whereby the winner takes everybody , the loser goes to jail , for ruthlessness . it is hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release it , or to the forces he wants to exclude her from politics forever . until recently , ukrainian leaders had been used to make more efficient means than prison for dealing with inconvenient opponents . that sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a potent incentive , whereby the winner takes all , the loser goes to jail , in exchange for ruthlessness . until recently , ukrainian leaders had been used to make them more efficient than prisons for dealing with inconvenient opponents .
this virtuous circle continues to view globalization as a vicious one , fostering exploitation of the poor and vulnerable . it is here that the questions of universal principles of justice and human rights enter the debate . undoubtedly , there is a powerful case for making a universal , impartial application of values . for an innovation , it is what generates wealth and employment , despite good -- or rather because of -- competition from poor countries . and heightened wealth in rich countries helps the poor through greater demand for their commodity goods .
that is why abe was the first “ foreign politician , ” after british prime minister theresa may ’s rush to congratulate trump on his views on his own in person in 2017 . in some important ways , japan has benefited enormously from being an american wing , and from the postwar constitution , which is not only pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of speech . but the democratic left of america still pride in its post-1945 installing system has also impeded american interference . constitutionally , unable to participate in us military adventures , except as the heavily paid goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather than like those in western europe , might focus on rebuilding its industrial power . like italy , japan was pretty much on the frontlines during the cold war .
all of this economic legerdemain magnified by tv , print , and online journalists . the economics profession bears part of the blame overwhelmingly for this . nobel prize winners like edward prescott does not have a business conversation for the benefits of tax cuts , without indicating that a tax cut accompanied by spending increases is not a tax cut at all ; rather , a future tax shift – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . but much of the trouble stems from an under-briefed , undereducated , uncurious press stations . aside from a small number of fine stories in the business press , it ’s hard to argue that anybody who read or listened to english-language media coverage might have learned anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies were probably better for america .
until now , they have failed abysmally on institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement of any successful national movement . fayyad is the first palestinian leader to fail to emerge from fatah ’s movement and perhaps thus to understand what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , enamored as they have done with a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . palestinian nationalism has been deeply ingrained in the consciousness of large majority palestinians , yet ever since the united nations suggested partitioning british palestine in two states , both jewry and arab and failing to move from an ideology of purpose . neither violence nor terrorism nor dependence on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union ) has succeeded in delivering statehood that a people can attain only through its own agency – what zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” it may simply be that the palestinians are on the brink of a new chapter in their history – and across israel ’s history as well .
at the same time , any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must alleviate china ’s geostrategic fears about the korean peninsula ’s future . in 1592 , the japanese national common toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean united kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . for centuries , china had worried that the peninsula could become part of a chain of encirclement , or it would serve as an invasion route . in response , under a ming dynasty , china fought alongside korea against the imperial japanese army . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to prevent japan from dominating korea .
a “ formal ” narrative about technology treats speed as inevitable . but it is a slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus disney omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or modify a huge but inherently unpredictable number of human jobs . in parallel , embracing new technology is deemed necessary for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success . thus , disruptions to existing patterns of work should be welcomed , and “ mitigated , ” by adapting its education and social-security systems to automation-driven job needs .
yet , for that to happen , the ultimate impact of progress in science and technology depends on all three factors . first , develop , sustain , and utilizing local capacities and leadership . each nation must also develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists local employment opportunities . developing scientific and technological capacity is less difficult than sustaining it and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . so african nations must invest in cutting-edge scientific and technological education and training .
in this sense , fifa is not a special case : any non-profit and for-profit organizations around the world are expected to adhere to such a code of conduct . and that is precisely why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to abate from scrutiny . they must be approached head-on , with a clean sweep of its leadership and a complete overhaul of its governance structures . yet a code of conduct on a field – whereby we expect the players to hand over their all under clear rules that are urgently enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally the same as expecting their governing entities from the field . fifa is as complicated as any big a multinational private or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect on this .
in the united states , it has dropped the number of full-time print journalists by 20 % since 2001 . because advertising revenue has gone from vacuums to online giants like facebook and google , newspapers ’ profits have plunged . even several grand figures have either closed down or published online only . the industry has faced many bankruptcies in the last few years , with those still operating often having laid off large numbers of employees , mostly in their foreign bureaus . across the west , young people have mostly dispensed with the home-delivered physical morning newspapers and instead catch up with the news whenever they chose , using tablets , laptops or cellphones .
people descended from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile in the aftermath of the 1973 coup , and iran in the aftermath of the 1979 revolution . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge arguably far less during a period of profound economic upheaval . yet it still proved well out : bosnian immigrants fared roughly as did the swedes who received them and had enriched our societies . in the new century , it took refugees increasingly from the middle east and the horn of africa as a whole . for decades , swedish industries were dependent on immigrant laborers .
google , facebook , and amazon all have announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . likewise , foreign firms are rushing to seize the ranks of european tech talent . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion took place last year , compared to just $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 , including softbank purchases by the british <UNK> tor-design firm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase of 2xsemiconductors . another study , by the boston consulting group , points out that many of the small , export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic and nordic countries – rank well above those of the us in so-called “ e-intensity , ” ” ” ” ” ” which covers it the infrastructure , the internet approach , and us firms , consumer , and governments engagement in internet-related activity . and consider one-third of these firms acquired the us tech company since early 2015 .
cambridge – the world ’s china dream is no exception . it has risen to the top by winning friends and allies inside the ccp . through a decade of government through a slogan , the chinese public wants it . so far , the public reaction has ranged from puzzlement over derision . this gives xi a real challenge .
in america , us president mitt romney has just taken office , following the hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . against advice by his council of economic advisers , trump announces across-the-board import tariffs on chinese exports . the demonstrations start in major cities , calling the end of corruption among party officials . china ’s government decides that it can not risk triggering further strife and announcing a package of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoff , including by direct financial support from us exporters and intervention in currency markets to weaken the renminbi . the combination of financial contagion from europe , which has already led to a severe credit crunch , and a sudden flood of low-quality imports from china leaves the romney administration in a bind .
nor does it seem to reflect the lobbying power of big financial players . that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 did n’t have been stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of such legislation ( there is currently an enormous fight around the “ volcker rule ” ” ” ” ” to limit proprietary trading by the megabanks ) . yet the mortgage lenders ’ criminal activity is another matter altogether . why would the administration continue to bend backward to backward rates to top bankers under these circumstances ? i honestly not believe that the administration ’s attitude reflects any form of corruption – payments made to individuals or even to political campaigns .
in fact , much of what went wrong in bosnia – including efforts , in its implication , to realize concepts of universal justice – has applications in the contemporary world . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may well find many of its features in syria today . like bosnia , syria looks hopelessly divided among warring factions , with the levels of violence there seem to be unstoppable . to be sure , at some point , there are some important differences . the international community was unable to achieve any unity of action , much less agree on a way forward .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign intervention , pursuing unilateral us efforts to retain overwhelming offensive superiority would only trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate a largely technological solution to this dilemma . their approach , a concept called the “ air-sea fight , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by the proliferation of precision-strike weapons . officially , the pentagon does not properly direct the notion of “ air-sea fight ” against any particular country . their approach , a concept called the us “ air-sea fight , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by the precision-strike weapons .
or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? ms. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge she needs . her advice is to seize opportunities at work , and also to finding happiness through marriage and children . ms. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge she hopes to pursue . or her , ms. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge she needs .
in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : beyond closing the chernobyl , the us is introducing western nuclear safety standards and renewing cooperation with the imf through an expanded fund facility facility ( facility ) . while the us can and will continue to combat corruption , we can not do everything alone . a positive sign here is the recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to finesse nuclear power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky , which will compensate for the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . moreover , the euroatom is helped with a $ 585 million loan to finance ukraine ’s operational nuclear energy plants . at the same time , international aid for our efforts is critical .
of course , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy , but revolutionary agitation . the russian people wanted to make a difference and curiously that they did : their energy and cohesion put an end to communist rule . out of this sea of social-democratic emotion new political institutions was supposed to emerge . although there is nothing like soviet oppression , a sense of alienation between the state and society reminiscent of the soviets . instead , a political life here has been reduced to a simple formality .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard themselves as an island of “ stability . ” ) almost everyone was surprised by the revolts , though their political and socioeconomic causation were well known . but some early lessons for international politics – and , for westerners , in particular , european union foreign policy – merit serious consideration . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we knew ai phenomena , but had failed to grasp their interactions , partly because politicians and analysts are unwilling to anticipate ruptures : the familiar is held steady , even when problems are known to be problematic .
to resolve it , the government has announced fiscal reforms to split the revenues between the central and local governments , allowing local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . but , because china is a net lender to the world , an lgfv ’s debt has no global systemic implications . indeed , whereas china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) by the end of 2011 , its land and fixed assets are worth some cn ¥ ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that , even though asset values have been written off to one-half , local governments would remain solvent . as a result , this leaves only the debt servicing issue . when the markets tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects shrank , spurring the lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to soar and introducing new market-based challenges to the reform process .
the dominance of free-market ideology prior to the crisis allowed for many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and heightened wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go nearly dangerously unchallenged . “ progressive ” referring to social liberalism and the “ conservative ” nature of free-market economics appeared to have been the two sides of the same coin . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the wake of the 2008 crisis , the political challenge of social liberalism could no longer be deflected by invoking impersonal economic laws . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the necessary condition for economic progress , democracies now seem unlikely to vote to reinstate social conditions ahead of the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . both racial and gender equality , today , are backed by clear majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even seemingly popular policies , like trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls , rarely muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys .
at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would actually be quite extraordinary at best . the real question is whether india can implement robust , productivity-enhancing reforms . while the pessimists will no doubt find validation in the further chinese growth disappointments that it is supposed to come , optimists might point to note that 5 % annual gdp growth in china is nominally equivalent to a 15-20 % growth rate in germany . it is equally predictable that india starts growing at far more rapid rates than china does , simply because its working-age population still has many of its aging left . indeed , as the us predicted nearly 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain more than 5 % annual gdp growth over the 2021-2030 period – the easy reason that its working-age population will reverse .
equally important is contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to vary the mix of such skill in different situations to produce the successful combinations i call “ smart power . ” obama has continued to demonize these leadership skills in his almost flawless transition policy . by choosing his primary opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state , and reaching across party lines to retain robert gates as secretary of defense , he has shown openness to powerful subordinates . during his campaign , obama showed these skill sets in his quiet crisis-response to crisis management , his forward-looking vision , and his super-b organizational skill . moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics was shaped from the bottom up by the experience in indonesia and kenya ; and his understanding of america ’s policy was shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago .
with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin and with the culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in the dawning dawn , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . internationally , [ it has ] diminished the country ’s stature and has left its reputations smeared . ” even its spiritual development has been tearing apart proliferation , popularization , and the rise of relative power … view an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretations of islam . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the jihad culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through .
moreover , gref 's program seeks to create effective private land ownership . gref 's program is also emblematic of a president 's style : modernization from above -- ie , that initiated by the government and , under his pressure , is matched by modernization from the below , based on a private initiative . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , creating deregulation , and stimulating competition . deregulation ( " de-bureaucratization , " really ) will make life easier for new firms by reducing the number of inspections imposed by the bureaucrats and by decreasing demands for firing charges and other forms of red tape ( which were also large sources of bribery ) . moreover , enhancing competition will impose the emphasis on antitrust policy and reducing state subsidies .
the pattern is starting to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , the initially muddled responses , debates , and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a common response , fueled by a realization that no other alternative is in place . in today ’s eu disagreements lie at the roots of a stronger union . the eu ’s people are , indeed , waking up to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting . the public no longer thinks of the european project as some kind of utopian schemes , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming to view the practical – and absolutely vital – mechanism by a group of small countries to work together to meet their shared challenges .
muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous posture during the uprising during the uprising has exposed his true colors , no matter how moderate the posture of the past few years . in other words , would i have followed back in the footsteps of a few of my harvard colleagues that traveled to libya to edit in order to swap views with , say , advice its dictator , and was paid for by his own services ? such scholars had pilloried for supposedly cozied up to qaddafi . sir howard davies chose to resign as lse ’s director , that awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) , and he took money to send out of the libyan regime . there is a potent sentiment that academics and institutions that colluded with such odious systems , often with encouragement from their own governments , undoubtedly that suffered a grave lapse of judgment .
thus , eight days before the vote , america had sent russian warnings about election meddling over a hotline , creating three years earlier for dealing with major cyber incidents , which connects countries ’ nuclear-risk cutting centers in both countries . because russian hacking activity seemed to be slow or stopped , the obama administration cited the warning as a successful exercise in deterrence . then , in 2016 , obama faced a difficult choice in estimating its escalatory potential to respond to cyber measures , or in a cross-industry response such as sanctions . the administration had been reluctant to take steps that might have themselves had to disrupt the election . but some critics would have claimed that the russians had already been achieving their primary goals .
as a result , the fund will fill the gap in regulatory coordination and service delivery by strengthening the system at its weakest moment , providing a bridge to longer-term development . if this initiative were put in place even before ecuador ’s earthquake , it could provide another 12 months of emergency aid , assistance to the country until it could reinstate education on its own national plans . an injection of financing , backed by a common strategy developed in partnership with governments would enable the immediate educational delivery of emergency education opportunities . once they are established , support would be made available to humanitarian actors and educators to develop immediate educational plans for children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer address in silos . in a more protracted crisis , like that which exists in syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with support from the international community , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank .
no israeli leader since then has shown anything like his far-sighted vision , the commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert came closest but not nearly enough . rabin ’s murder was a catastrophe from which the peace process had never recovered . for all his deep emotional attachment to an idea israel embracing everything historic , judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to secure a democratic jewishness with viable , secure borders was to accept a palestinian state alongside it , equally secure and enviable . they would share jerusalem as the capital and find mutually acceptable solutions to the enormously sensitive issue turning the palestinian refugees back .
some might think that this might be true only if the logical end of evolution and smart lives were to be the nuclear explosions that pulverized earth . but that is not what schneider and sagan really mean . instead , they differentiate between matter and energy , saying that matter that organized in structures disseminates energy gradients faster than being randomly distributed . as one example , they regard a phenomenon of which beer drinkers have long been recognized . if you wish to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) and turn it into an advance , water emerges in uneven glugs .
we have lost our organizing principle , and no alternative idea has substituted for it . for more than one thing , argentina has become a kind of country without direction . no longer has a guide , an idea of how to think about our country , understanding it , and how to imagine who we are and with whom we can become . it has n’t been easy living without knowing who we are , and it has become even harder to live up to this way as we watched our world crumble . argentina ’s notion as a country with infinite promises became desaparecido , the name given to those who had vanished into the dirty war of the 1970 ’s .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , despite a us senate report concluding that the techniques it employed yielded without valuable intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” ” ” ” also make it clear that the many us citizens who were detained and tortured were not threatened by america ’s security , at least not until america ’s actions had made them such . the week the us senate report emerged , i was read anand gaidal ’s new book no good men among a living that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , the taliban commander , and kabul-born housewife who spent years in purdah in the taliban country . time and again , a similar story plays out : a indigenous power-broker is willing , even eager , to support a new us-backed administration , only to be denounced as a taliban member through a fellow afghan force , typically for local political or personal reasons , to unwitting america ’s own troops . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone alive in afghanistan , talked the language , and understand the workings of patronage and power there .
beyond europe , this applies even to the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , a latter has called for a referendum to help arrest his own sinking popularity . replacing a governor who they had been re-elected only a year before with arnold schwarzenegger has had to give californian enormous whit , if a guilty , pleasures . some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same to german chancellor gerhard schröder , even though they have not ( that is , yet ! ) found a film star to replace him . electoral success , indeed , seems to have been , fades fast nowadays . several other european governments find themselves experiencing an economic unpopularity not long after they have been elected .
the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflects its commitment to market-allocation and lowering the costs of doing business . and in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” and the internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to assume the country ’s manufacturing base into the internet age . china may still tap new markets through efforts like the belt and road initiative , ” but at a substantial cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires that it continue to shift the global value chain , by pursuing additional economic reforms and a focus on new technologies . and , in fact , the “ opening-up dividend ” has brought maturity , as well as encountering protectionist barriers worldwide .
and it wo n’t help fighting the world ’s largest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , caused largely by open-air fires fueled by wood , cardboards , and dung , and claims an estimated 3.8 million lives annually . the iea expects each of the 195 million off-grid solar gets just 170kwh annually , or about half of what a single american flat-screen tv uses every year . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test released on the impact of solar panels on the lives of the poor found that while they got a little more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : less savings or spending meant less labor or more companies ; and their children were not studying more . little wonder : 170kwh is not what most of us would regard as a real approach to electricity . off-grid energy at this level will never power a factory or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs .
from 1990 to 2010 , rates of death and disability among ncds in low-income countries increased 300 % faster than rates of infectious diseases . some of the same factors at work during the recent ebola outbreak are driving high rates of ncds . people of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies are often faced with both indoor or outdoor pollution , and becoming less likely to have access to adequate nutrition . most health systems in those countries are not built on chronic or preventive care and a lack of basic consumer protections . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in the developing world .
rather , the politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional . both european and american debates have replete with the posturing and tests of will , turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” in the chicken , two drivers race towards a cliff ( or , towards one another ) ; the loser is the first driver to float away in the face of imminent disaster . yet , if neither driver concedes , both are destroyed . when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as a zero-sum game and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , the malaise sets in .
throughout the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their ability to shift their profits to low certain jurisdictions , continue to allow them largely to flee the purview of national regulators and governments , despite their g20-sponsored work to avoid corporate-base erosion and profit displacement . and biotechnology will pose immense challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening allow parents to “ choose ” embryos with desired characteristics . at the same time , political institutions did not keep pace with technological change and the resulting growth in markets . when ordinary egyptians , having organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and toppled former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , technology seemed to necessarily as a boost to democracy . but it soon became clear that these digital platforms could readily follow authoritarian governments or terrorists , and used to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and create deep divisions and turmoil in societies .
but the us federal government ’s support of research as a percentage of gdp is at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . yet the key lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not really changed : tax cuts like these lead not to faster growth , but merely to lower revenues . addressing the panoply of other problems confronting the us will require more federal revenues , not less . the rising standards of living , for example , are the direct result of technological innovations that , in turn , depend on basic research . while trump ’s nominee has criticized america ’s national debt growth , he now proposes tax cuts that would add trillions to gdp in just the next ten years , rather than the “ just ” $ 1.5 trillion claimed by republicans , thanks to some growth miracle that results in more tax revenues .
obama can take advantage of his exalted state of the union ’s message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy for slashing the budget deficit to a sustainable level . while it will probably lack the public option many of us favor , this remains a real-world achievement . the same middle-of-the-road approach can be taken in the second year to address the still outstanding fiscal issues . but obama needs a stronger lead on financial reform , where , as with the health-care policy itself , there is a kernel of conflicting suggestions . this would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establishing an independent commission to which members of congress amendment-proof take for tax and spending reform .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as europe ’s latest battleground in a contest between the two models of democracy that were liberal and “ illiberal . ” the resounding electoral victories in october , jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice party ( pis ) , led to something more like regime change than to routine turnover in democratically elected governments . in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into the eu ’s potential violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration had carved up the polish civil service ( including public radio and television ) , packaged the polish constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened the tribunal ’s capacity to strike down legislation . moreover , for the first time since communism ’s collapse , standard & poor ’s has been downgraded by poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from its – to the bbc + , and has warned of perhaps more cuts to come as it accuses governments of weakening “ the autonomy and effectiveness of core ” institutions .
furthermore , in the shiite tradition , the strategy of the mahdi , the shiite messiah , will be to terrorize all of his enemies upon his return to earth . the regime appears convinced that there really is a low likelihood of another military strike against its nuclear program . it does not believe that sanctions can bring about its collapse . external forces thus appear not to represent much of the threat . but cultivating fear in others also make one more susceptible to fear , and nothing is more frightening to khamenei and islamic republic leaders than to socioeconomic dynamism unleashed by a democratic movement brewing inside the country .
throughout its history , modern iraq has always been the most repressive secular of arab lands . for their own political reasons , the british put sunni arabs – never over 25 % of the population – in control of the entire country , and even imported the sunni arab hashemite prince to govern from their creation . ever since , the country could be held together simply by an iron-fisted iron fist : iraqis ’ history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian regime revolts , all put down bloody fashions by the ruling sunni minority . it was this sunni hegemony that was – and not simply that of saddam ’s thuggish regime – that overthrew the united states . saddam ’s rule was only the most brutal one in a long line of sunni regimes .
sometimes the extent of the sequence identity between two orthologs may be as low as 25-30 % ; and still their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the function of evolutionary change . if the structure of proteins is conserved throughout species , where is our complexity coming from one another ? proteins that maintain the same functions across very different species – in general , the case of orthologs – are expected to keep identical fold . but a sequence of amino acids , which sets up protein chains within those orthologs , can vary significantly . this protein conservation fold across species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , as it is currently known that the number of human gene deceptively is small , only one order of magnitude greater than currently being followed by , say , rice .
similarly , georgia ’s inability to manage relations with its one autonomous republic , adzharia , facilitates little confidence . adzhar people regard as ex-kgb men , but still frequent squabbles with the central government , so how ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgian people would work any better ? georgian president saakashvili appears to understand the necessity of reviving georgian moribund economies , which require , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to disavow from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . georgian current economic collapse provides little incentive for either of these self-seeking independent republics to support reunification .
moreover , the scots , welsh , and irish have come to view eu membership as a hindrance against english political revanchism . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but emerges with divisive side effects . brexiteer fantasies about “ britain ” focus squarely on english national identity , while also diluting those from scotland , northern ireland , and the welsh who would go back to serving as junior partners in a much less magnificent and rewarding english projects . while socioeconomic factors played some of the role in the outcome of the brexit referendum , the brexit geographic breakdown tells the real story . excluding london , a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , with some 55 % of greek voters supporting the withdrawal of the eu , whereas 62 % of scots and 56 % of northern ireland voted to remain .
yet , promisingly – and surprisingly , given the rather toxic state of american politics , it attracted wide support and smart commentary from many mainstream pundits . the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does n’t wreak environmental havoc and acknowledge the importance of climate-change adaptation . in the us , trump witnessed an almost equally promising development in the climate debate just over the past month , at a time when america ’s conservative enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist break institute teamed up to a report calling for revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy inexpensive . entitled post-partisan power , ” a report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and the university-private-sector innovation hubs to create a “ energy revolution . ” this rational proposition predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ”
yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ seemingly solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative take over is not as straightforward as it seems . the problem boils down to overcoming potential opposition , from both the elite and the general public , that could deride the handover , or undermine the successor ’s authority . all four north african rulers have , to greater or no avail , made themselves the center for highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends on the person and the family , rather than the office . solving elite interests requires ingenuity .
many who agree that milosevic is a war criminals now think we should listen to the voices coming out of belgrade and their outcry that milosevic should face trial before his own people . there appears to be near-universal agreement that he should and have been applied to polish president kostunica to comply . but the rulings may have some life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future . ultimate moral responsibility for what was done by milosevic rests with serbia . they brought him to power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they backed him even when he led them in genocidal crimes and defeat after defeat .
but , on a recent trip to israel , the white house adviser , dan shapiro , is said to have been reassured that israelis will not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro handed down israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader saas a party invitation to the white house . for starters , us officials have been again toying into what henry kissinger has dubbed the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” palestinians have been assured through a message from us president barack obama , delivered by his own special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not be able to implement any “ provocations ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressured to make clear , palestinians have conceded that there can be no scripted promise to that effect .
after all , china ’s rulers are driven , first and foremost , by a desire to retain the party , not any individual , in power . to be sure , in the short run , some authoritarian modernizers ( singapore ’s lee kuan yew , for example ) serve their countries better than their democratically elected leaders ( italy ’s ’s silvio berlusconi ) . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , such as zimbabwe , robert mugabe , or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . in the long run , however , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in “ autocracies , ” where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . the “ china model ” combines some of the authoritarian modernization model ’s advantages – centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation of populism , and superior ability to pursue painful but needed reforms – with management turnover by de-personalizing political struggles .
but the obama administration needs to go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two further things . first , capital requirements should have been tripled , not only in the us , but across the g-20 , so that banks hold at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . second , when banks are “ too big to fail , ” ” ” ” ” ” they must continue to weaken , in order to ensure that taxpayers do not bail them out every time a crisis erupts . that way , bank executives rather than regulators would play the lead role in making bank executives behave wisely . the dilution of glass-steagall , and its ultimate repeal in 1999 allowed banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” ” – and enabled them to use depositors ’ savings to trade for their own account – mainly in risky mortgage-backed securities .
others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . and make no mistake : the agreement is about to do so . its collapse would unleash a nuclear-arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move rapidly toward a nuclear capability , using its abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . to bet that those countries that have acquired such weapons would behave seriously would be a high-risk gamble .
germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-loving , war-abhorring , democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not just to his native germany or even to the west , but to all humankind . his scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode reflects the genuinely global attitude of the enlightenment . beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . the concert was offered as a layer of layer upon a layer of prominence .
of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed to russian banks and firms in 2008 , the us government refinanced only about $ 10 billion . nor has the “ oligarchs ” been bailed out . instead , up to now , the government has typically provided ( high-interest rates ) loans rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . apparently , the terms that the us government offers ( libor , +5 % , and collateral ) have proved to be right on target . accordingly , how has reasonable economic policies to prevail in this crisis ?
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump comes at trump ’s opulent florida estate mar-a-lago , at least part of the discussions will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . but , to reach a comparable success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to adopt an alternative policy toward north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again , failed negotiations , north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed moment , much like the one that the west faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against one another in europe . america and its allies successfully navigated the challenge posed by europe in the twentieth century without war . when both the american and soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had the wherewithal to deterring the other from invading .
theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether it will ever translate into practice . there is a long and distinguished tradition of catholic social thought within the eu . but taking these traditions seriously would require the much larger transformations of forms of capitalism than even an erratic christian democrats are prepared to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and mechanisms involving management workers . for the moment , the temptation is for europe to find its “ new view ” through a selective impeachment of religion – and waiting and seeing whether it operates as an electoral strategy . for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new view ” through a selective appeal to religion – and to wait and see whether it operates as an electoral strategy .
nonetheless , this brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . postponing a second consumption-tax hike seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and sustaining long-run credibility . fiscal sustainability requires the eventual rise in the consumption tax ; and , of course , japan should not have to wait until international investors start doubting its willpower . demands policies on their own will not alone prevent the emergence of two more lost decades , much less assuring two golden ones . in both timing and tactics , however , the problem lies in the problem .
and they were willing to overlook the growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady ’s marriage , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to portugal ’s star and others to silence ) , in exchange for policy influence and appointments by social conservatives to the supreme court and every other part of the federal judicial system . typically , congressional republicans had panicked , telling trump and his team that his policies of tearing families apart could ruin their chances in november ’s midterm elections . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing strong . in fact , the “ separating ” families threatened to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . unusually for her , former first lady laura bush spoke out against a policy of picking up children from their mothers .
besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will spur russia ’s imperial ambitions . that will lessen russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full democracy ; for it it could rule an empire solely as a militarized state . but eu membership does not imply any estrangement from russia . an ever-larger eu including ukraine would create a political force with an enormous population , furthering the union ’s aspirations to be a global power . it is denmark of the good club that has clamor to become members .
anyone visiting the greek cypriot part of the island nowadays will not find refugee camps : much of the millions of tourists are unaware that more than one-third of the greek cypriots they encounter are refugees or offspring of refugees . moreover , schools and training centers were established , and they were made aware of the north ’s problems . indeed , firms were encouraged with government subsidies and borrowing . within a few years , refugees were absorbed into the economy and the societies of the southern , greek cypriot sector of israel . as in post-world war ii west germany , much of today ’s simultaneous prosperity in cyprus is the outcome of the spurning economy being received by refugees .
it ’s not hard to see why . in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % annually since 2000 , may well have reduced poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is the most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are evident from china to greece . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy . throughout the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are growing richer because they are not ruled by the same rules as everyone else .
russia ’s officers have reported , directly command large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of an important debaltseve transport center in february . but the threat that russia poses extends far beyond ukraine . after all , russia is the one country with enough missiles and nuclear warheads to bring down america . as its economic and geopolitical clout has waned , so has its willingness to contemplate renouncing its nuclear position . indeed , not only has it revived cold war-era tactic of sending military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also produced veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err on the side of hopes rather than be right with despair . ” or , to put it less in his optimistically , democracy and autocracy still hold similar odds as they are decaying . for the moment , it remains an uncertain which model will prevail . contrary to what many right-wing democratic geert wilders thought , the worst is n’t inevitable . authoritarians and the populists have not triumphed yet , and , in many places , the democrats campaign back .
one argues that coercion can change mindsets . but , by applying the talmudic logic , one can also demonstrate that there are mechanisms through which mechanisms could and should be used to place pressure on parties to pursue superior voluntary outcomes . there are two talmudic interpretations of the talmudic passage . the predominant answer is that one coerces bondholders to accepting the deal , " explicitly . " one could dismiss this dispute as merely rhetoric .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan initiated by prime minister shinzo abe in 2012 has come under growing scrutiny . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs were created , and the unemployment rate fell to just over 3 % . but japan ’s current travails , which have brought concomitant a stock-market crash , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , by 24 % over the last year , against major currencies . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , with tax revenues exceeding ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) . “ abenomics , ” which entailed substantial monetary and fiscal expansion , has nothing to do with it .
milan – the worst of the financial/economy crises appears finally to have been ending . asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 . private-sector deleveraging continued , but they were counter-balanced by rising public-sector deficits and debt . and emerging-market growth returned to pre-crisis levels and appeared sustainable , helped via unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows . growth in the united states and parts of europe returned .
in a world of sovereigns , is hypocritical for some to have nuclear arms and deny them to others ? they may have argued that all of them should have been given or none at all . but history depends on a path that has been taken in the past . if nobody had the bomb today , it might have been best had it not been invented . suppose this occurred in 1939 , with states debating whether the us should come up with the bombing .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a fully manufacturing-led and export-led economy to one underpinned by services and domestic consumption is firmly underway . and that ’s good news not only for china , but also for the global economy ’s future . china ’s retail sector reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . with household consumption beginning to climb , even as the pace of investment fell , now exceeding 60 % of gdp . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book ’s commercial sector by fung of business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences charts the change .
part of the attraction of such synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( no need to fire up , snort , or smoke ) . amphetamines rate the ways in which the body works : its users experience increased their confidence , its sociability , and its energy . this buzz is taken as harmless : pills do not kill or spread hiv/aids , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” said . the global market for these stimulants worldwide is estimated at an estimated $ 65 billion . but , for now , what goes up must come down .
trials of the balkan wars and the many wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990s were initiated through international organizations like the united nations environment program ( unep ) . sadly , africa 's wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to receive the attention that they require . what have we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? attempts have been made ever since to examine and document the environmental consequences of wars . first , all effects depend on a type of war and type .
paris – whoever wins the september ’s parliamentary election in germany ; the time has come again for a major franco-german initiative . joining great britain with them in the club of three would be a good idea ; but it is out of the question nowadays . are the alternatives to franco-german leadership of europe ? regardless of their economic conditions , or their trust – or their lack of it – in france , france and germany are more than ever leading responsibility for the future , if not the very survival – of the european project . in fact , britain has largely excluded itself from any eu leadership role in europe .
looking back on his return to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought to the government an experienced and internationally-renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , who had served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek ahluwalia , who heads his planning commission , a key body that assesses india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . chidambaram ’s 2000s puts those fears to rest . the paper ’s brilliant lesson in development economics : it shows how to combine the full-speed approach to market-based reform with urgently needed attention to poverty . in short , for all developing countries , the budget is a model . when former government lost the vote earlier this past may , and singh ’s government came into office , fears were high that singh would be hamstrung by his left-wing coalition partners who sought to be dismantled as the price of their participation in a new ruling coalition .
according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular gdp growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp has risen by 52 % in ukraine , and by 46 % in russia . that is history now at a time : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and just 1.3 % in russia . and such anxiety can have serious adverse consequences , too . for starters , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia may ultimately be behind the recent war there . the discontent generated by such an disappointment may help to explain ukrainian separatists ’ anger , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and prop up pro-soviet separatists .
which measures alone can secure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . but this is impossible without a clear european identity – and thus a common interest to be asserted and defended . indeed , the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must be supranational , too . how , then , can we narrow existing differences in development and material well-being within europe ?
barcelona – in the aftermath of world war i – where millions of european civilians had been made refugees , enforced from their homelands through enemy occupation or deportation – an international regime was developed to coordinate efficient responses and ease the suffering of those who had been uprooted . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its answers failing to match the urgency of the situation . indeed , in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people have been making every effort to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . a century later , another refugee crisis is occurring , and , this time , it is europe that has the power to provide a safe haven to desperate people . some 1,800 people have died , as a result – more than twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 .
american sanctions , for example , ultimately brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but the sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the un security council , had isolated iran financially . american sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop , and the deployment of similar measures by the european union , russia , its largest trading partner . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile and temporary at best . indeed , just a year after the iran deal had been reached , it is already hard to imagine that china or russia would back additional joint actions against iran , even as the agreement had begun to unravel . without eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective .
bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 trillion , with crude oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . indeed , nigeria is india of africa ’s largest trading partner . india ’s ’s ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc ) generates sudanese oil , and more than another couple of years of indian diplomatic missions will open up in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a single division of africa ; it now has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and eventually western asia and north africa . a study by the federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry identified five main sectors that can act as “ growth engines ” to empower indo-africa : pharmaceuticals and the health sector , information technologies , water management , food processing , and education .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiations between israel and palestine , in which the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and the key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . this paradigm should be expanded to include the geneva ii negotiations on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . only with a ready negotiating process guided by regional and global actors can a stable middle east balance of power be achieved . to be sure , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . already , the objective must be clarity and balance .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two linked but distinct connotations . it may imply that something is unconstrained , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it may imply that something , like a person or institution , is so transparent as opposed to secretive . after all , structural change can be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive . the first insight is often applied to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not coincide with vulnerability opportunities ) that have always driven structural economic change , especially in respect to employment . and policymakers have a long history of striking a balance between the abstract principle of openness and concrete action to limit the worst effects of change .
faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed tried to support growth in its indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity using multiple means , it raised financial asset prices well beyond what the economy ’s fundamentals warranted . the fed hoped that it would make certain population segments ( asset holders ) feel richer , enticing them to spend more and stimulate corporations to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” ” ” and “ animal spirits ” ” have proved fairly feeble . thus , the fed felt somewhat compelled to do more of the same , resulting in a host of unintended consequences and risks of collateral damage that i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in city .
as a result , certain groups of neurons , like those responsible for producing and perceiving language , may start functioning autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . what remains unaddressed is the uprooting cause of abnormal brain activations . we are pursuing three intertwined ideas , as we move our way into thinking . first , based on studies suggest that schizophrenia patients suffer from reduced brain connectivity . it is as though a strand section of the orchestra suddenly decided to play its own music , disregarding everyone else .
but brazil ’s visionary leadership will be needed to seal a successor agreement to the kyoto protocol at copenhagen later this year . the agreement reached there must establish ambitious , efficient , and equitable , offering wealthy nations a pathway to reining in greenhouse-gas emissions , while encouraging poorer countries as they adjust to the negative impact of climate change . i have seen the shrinking glaciers in antarctica and as a result of andes . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including the portions of trinidad and tobago , could be threatened if sea levels rise .
while singapore ’s political system could not readily be shifted to a giant country like china , it represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward greater meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china developed a ingenious and comprehensive system to select and promote political leaders that comprised decades of training and a battery of sings for civil servants at various stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leading leaders overseen an economic boom that lifted a couple of hundred million people out of poverty . nevertheless , issues like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have been exacerbated . since the 1990 ’s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its historical experience .
the united states had vetoed reelection , advocated by france , of un secretary general bayoutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wants to “ enlarge the role ” of the general secretary in reforming the world ’s body . ( on both sides of this spat may be rather paradoxical , if one recalls that de gaulle wanted to downplay as many as possible the un ’s powers , to whom he contemptuously referred to as “ thingamajig ” and that america owes more than one billion dollars in past contributions to the un . ) at the same time , washington does not even want to hear any talk about conferring on a european , as france demands , command of an allied fleet in the mediterranean . today , nothing franco-american goodwill seems to be happening . relations between the two us allies have entered one of those periods of tension flared many times since the end of world war ii .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . most powerful of all , free-trade underpins economic growth , which implies that millions more people have lifted out of poverty . the white house ’s 2015 report , for example , found that an often-squirming of tariffs results in a one-percentage-point drop in the payroll gap between us and consumer pay , and that lowering tariffs also reduce wage gaps based on race and immigration status . over time , free trade enables workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased investment in infrastructure , and a more dynamic economy . furthermore , increased trade openness is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher rates of living , especially in the developing world .
as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china , with its spectacular economic growth and development over the last few decades , has eroded hong kong ’s leading position as a center for finance , logistics , and commerce . in may 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s outward trade with china , and its gdp amounted to almost one-fifth of china ’s . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade . it has far outlived shanghai , mainland china of the most prosperous city-state , in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . but hong kong ’s advantages are now in jeopardy , owing largely to its own holdings of us insecurities .
brexit is and will remain ; a lose-lose proposition . while may has agreed that avoiding hard border should be part of any deal , may has offered only vague suggestions about how this could actually be achieved . the alternatives currently available for the eu are either seeing the uk either exit from its customs union or keeping the uk in account by making a political commitment to take british interests into account . from a long-term perspective , therefore , the latter are preferable . finally , remaining within the eu ’s customs union would allow it to avoid the reestablishment of a hard border between the united kingdom and the republic of ireland after brexit .
but some of the most powerful performers in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , had very little over five feet tall . a traits-centered approach did not vanished from studies of management , but was broadened and made in a more flexible manner . various studies show that tall men are often favored , and that corporate ceos average taller than their average . a tall , handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ look like a leader . ” search for the essential traits of a leader-dominated leader until the late 1940 ’s and remain common in popular discourse today .
a globalization that can be defined as interdependence at inter-continental scale is as old as human history . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europeans and america were able to interact with one other in a sense . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of the englishman in london using the telephone of goods from around the world to pass on a afternoon . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of the “ englishman ” in london using the telephone of goods from around the world to pass a afternoon . but today ’s globalization is different , because it tends to grow faster and thicker .
one might argue , of course , that post-crisis regulatory reform will eventually resolve the problem of periodic systemic risk , reversing a reasonably stationary risk world without periodic imbalances . an endowment or retirement fund , for example , might consider basing its paygo decisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a straightforward , weighted average of past returns or end-period asset values ( standard practice now ) . for example , an endowment or retirement fund might consider basing its paygo decisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a simple , weighted average of past returns or end-period asset values ( standard practice now ) . but i would not bet on this happening at all . what is required , as an example , is a massive risk that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts to eliminate it . first and foremost , financial innovation would advance alongside regulatory arbitrage .
either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses low emissions forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public financing alongside private-sector investment . third , the american recovery will lack credibility unless and until a strategy is put forward by the government ’s own finances back into order . george w. bush ’s vision of economic policy was to slash taxes at a rate of three occasions while boosting spending through war . the result is a massive budget deficit that broadens to $ gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recessions , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
according to the 2005 declaration on international election observation , a credible monitor requires meeting five criteria . first , inclusive observers must be autonomous to support , both financially and otherwise , in their relationship with the host country . second , observers must be granted unrestricted access to all aspects and phases of the election process , just as it is to all the technologies involved . third , outside observers must counter no constraints when meetings with all institutions and political actors are agreed upon . fourth , observers must avoid the need for outside pressure or the threat of retaliation by any governmental body .
as the criteria grows longer , the most readily measured component , punctuality , is but one of several desirable features and not necessarily the most important . they should be running not just at time , but at the proper time and at reasonable intervals . for more important still , they should be affordable . for this an example is relevant for the policy of public services that dominates debate in many countries because it lies at the heart of the great problems of the us government budget ( and in cutting them back ) and taxation ( and spending cuts ) . what is needed , more important , is a willingness to spend .
hustlers thrive ; poor watch passively . we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothing from our top trucks ’ top trucks , triggering a burst of riot . the distribution is haphazard , and is uncoordinated , done with little or no thinking at all . hustlers have been prospering , weak watch passively . hustlers have seen hefty helicopters attempt air slacks ; landing is impossible in most places .
for example , carrying on the manhattan project ( producing an atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , america 's government set a remarkable technological goal , established a daring timelines , and committed financing resources to get the job done . the example of atomic bombs might seem an inconvenient one , yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to collaborate on war technology , should n’t we do at least equal help in saving the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , the “ “ “ “ “ “ “ process " process , ” in which bold goals are set , its milestones , and timelines , is far more common than many realize . the information-technology revolution , which has brought us to the computer , smartphone , gps , and much more , was constructed upon a host of industry and government roadmaps . in both cases , the researchers and engineers of the time delivered .
to be sure , good relations with europe take precedence over russia , particularly economic links , human contact , and social interactions . but anti-americanism is simply irrational for russia , which stands only to gain from an alliance with a world economic and political leader . but its strategic alliance with the eu over its foreign and security policies remains unrealistic and inefficient . russia will also benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading members . europeans will most likely continue to grow weaker rather than stronger ones .
and , with the emergence of new diseases like zika and the revival of old foes like a bubonic plague , there is no question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . moreover , it has compounded the dangers of globalization by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . a influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 , which killed between 50 and 100 million people , would be even more devastating today . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases like cancer and diabetes , which impose massive burdens on their economies . to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to boosting health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries .
that would create room for a more unified tax response across countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’ ability to evade taxation through a transformation of taxation . the advantage of the income-tax increase is that they might rely not just on current income , but on some years of disposable income , and might allow investment deductions , thereby share some features with the wealth tax without penalizing those who would have saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-planned blueprint , legislating by one or a handful of countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occurs , might help to promote international dialogue on appropriate future policy to fight inequality . and , if wealth taxes do exist , instituting them now to take effect only in the future , and only if inequality becomes a lot worse – that is , avoiding the perception that the rules were changed once the play came to an end . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality .
my first stint in a chinese prison was tied to a work that i started in the early 2000s to print and distributing tibetan-language books . i regarded these texts as important readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion . but viewed by the chinese authorities as a challenge to their rule , the chinese authorities punished me accordingly . many had spent years in jail for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . as the 2008 olympics hit , i began seeking new ways to track my own history .
warsaw – the massive warsaw protests have staged headlines worldwide in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age of poland ’s supreme court justices , effectively forcing out any judges over the age of 65 , and allowing the pis to pack the justice ( pis ) party with its own tame justices . the polish constitution stipulates an independent judiciary , and sets a term for the first pis president for six years . that means that judges can not be removed through legislation – at least not constitutionally . and yet the new law does enables polish president andrzej duda to replace , say , three-fifths of the supreme court ’s justices , including justice in 2018 alone .
latest proof : mauricio funes , the fmln ’s standard bearer – until not long ago , the marxist guerilla movements at the time – just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . back in his own radical days , ken livingstone , the former london mayor , famously quipped that , should a vote change anything , they would abolish it . this is remarkable in a country that for as long as anyone remembers it has been ruled , by a hook or fraud by a reactionary oligarchy . in latin america , elections actually turn out to be shaking things up . if the salvadoran left the party ’s close electoral victory peacefully accepted , as it had so far been , it implies that latin america actually came a long way .
that ’s why channeling dispersed knowledge into new businesses requires a regulatory framework that favors a more genuinely enlightened and honest one . the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ [ t ] he did n’t , in my opinion , go well . ” it is with respect to that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses unique information about which beneficial uses might be made , but of which uses might be made only if decisions that are driven from it , or that are made with his or her active collaboration . the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of the vulnerability of deception . “ [ t ] here is beyond question the body of very significant but unorganized knowledge , ” which can not , perhaps correctly , be called in the sense of general rules : insights in specific circumstances and location .
in reality , everyone gearing up behind the scenes for a “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” and what those involved in the talks are calling “ an even bigger slog . ” “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , in part because – and this might sound odd at first – it ’s all about climate change . perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those who had become negotiations . with more than a thousand points still agreeing , all the policy-makers that i ’ve been saying recently that they ca n’t see just how a meaningful agreement can be reached on december in copenhagen . even if some sort of communiqué is paved together in december , as well as countries with elections approaching , such as the united kingdom , will put pressure on one , it is hard to believe that doing enough detail , or reflecting proper commitment levels , so desperately needed .
more people arrive at the same conclusion , and those of us , championing evs as one part of human-made solutions to climate change , are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . still , it is human nature to resist change , and many prospective purchaser buyers remain hesitant . that is why tackling the stock of consumption bias must be a top priority in the coming years . consumer car sales have increased dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 reported in 2016 , nearly half in china . a few changes are needed to ensure that growth in ev usage and sales continues .
the success of the wto ’s adjudication system is reflected in its widespread acceptance . a focus on preferential agreements would fragment , rather than integrate it with the global trading system . a gradual marginalization of the wto would also erode its credibility in meeting its key role as an international adjudicator of trade disputes . even when wto decisions have had serious adverse effects on one ’s trading partner , they were generally accepted . that represents a remarkable advance in global governance .
most important , the energy market – the market for natural gas – and the tourist rentals have been liberalized , while the process for acquiring investment licenses – has been streamlined . all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that have governed greece during the last 30 years , and are thus responsible for driving it to ruin . now that the greek government has delivered on its side of the bailout deal , it is time that its european and international counterparts are speaking out for the program ’s first review . that will enable the government to move on to the second phase : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and putting the economy back on a path toward growth . it is as if they can not get a sense of how reforms can help restart an economy plagued with deep structural problems .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge ; but a foremost global power leader continues to loot out one ’s hands . early november , us president donald trump gave official notices about america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby confirming the kind of resolve that he had announced when he was inaugurated in june 2017 . earlier announcements came soon after the accord allowed , and withdrawal becomes effective the day following america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . as a result , the united states will become the only country in the world not party to the pact . following its targeted killing by iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the us department of commerce ’s department statistics show that after-tax corporate earnings ( technically , after-tax profits from current output , adjusted for inventory - and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a robust 9.7 % of national income over the third quarter of 2016 . trends in corporate taxes , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , foster a similar verdict . while this is down from the close to 11 % peak in the us in 2012 , owing to tepid us economic growth , which typically puts downward pressure on profit margins , it hardly attests to the problem of chronic earnings . for starters , it is a true stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate earnings state . far from anemic , current after-tax earnings share is well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % .
the widespread prescription of the troubled minds drugs has always ended badly , right back to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all have proved highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial had doctors admitted that they were so . in england , the prescriptions of anti-depressants now matches valium in 1979 . the last decade saw a three-fold increase in prescriptions by doctors . it is now clear that today ’s anti-depressants are not the wonder drug they have been touted as being . in england , the prescriptions of anti-depressants now fit the valium at its peak in 1979 .
of course , such actions will be unpopular with labor and the correct response here is to eliminate large taxes on wages so that money wages can rise without an offsetting fall in competitiveness . in the budget , this pays for the favorable effect of a devaluation on government oil revenues . most high-unemployment economies have shown little feedback from a currency collapse into one of high inflation . in venezuela , with unemployment at more than 20 % , output is expected . the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy within a less-exposed external position with a large ( 50 % at the very least ) depreciation .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people face severe water-related challenges , from inadequate access and disruption of disputes over supplies , with profound implications for safety , economic development , and environmental sustainability . indeed , as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed at the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , tackling these issues should be a top priority . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , and annual economic losses are estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double total official development assistance . making matters worse , climate change will render the water supply more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing major human and economic costs , and impede development in poor countries .
but all public actors , not just the police force , must respond to these urban problems . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as news mediators , because they are off the frontlines in implementing city-policy . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communicating links within their community , and thus the most capable of organizing effective partnerships to resolve and resolve local issues . events in france also point to the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination and that promote social equality . when such policies fail , citizens hold the mayors responsible .
in america , time on welfare is now limited , and people who have n’t worked for years suddenly had to do so as well . at the same time , the welfare state is being undermined as a result . in europe , by contrast , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . the american example , the world ’s only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( after tax adjustments ) has hit 70 % and up .
zurich – repeatedly over recent years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . yet that renaissance never seems to be coming . indeed , of the world ’s 200 nations , just 30 are exploited nuclear power . roughly 16 % of total us energy needs ( up from 25 % in the highly industrialized countries ) now meet electric power . in july 2010 , fully 439 nuclear-power plants , with a net installed capacity of 37,038 gw ( e ) , were linked to different national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) more than at the start of 2006 .
denver – the united states constitution , which turned out 225 years into a remarkable paper last summer , is a remarkable documentary : the articles of eighteenth-century texas continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s advice and consent , and that includes nomination of senior us officials . presumably nobody , 225 years ago , had any idea that the number of officials deemed to require senate approval would ultimately exceed 1,400 , or that senate confirmation will involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete . the implications of this will be reflected in the weeks ahead , as us president barack obama is filling senior positions in his previously second-term administration . in many cases , the process will not be pretty .
a crucial dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and raises the same questions about european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel showed , the eu as a whole could , with some attempting , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to consider sources of supplies as a matter of shared concern , rather than the question that each country must address on its own . for example , in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or cut consumption a bit . but this sense of solidarity has been consistently absent from the eu ’s energy-policy discourse .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the department of justice under president donald trump appears to be continuing this long tradition . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device at his own disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives .
hypothetically , shift off your one-hour lights would cut co2 emissions from coal-fired power plants around the world . but , even if everybody in the rest of the world cut all residential lighting and this translated entirely into co2 reductions , it would still be the equivalent of china pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have found , a small drop in electricity consumption does not translate into fewer coal-fired power plants , and therefore will not cut emissions now . in fact , the “ earth hour ” will actually cause emissions to rise . moreover , during earth hour of earth , any significant drop in demand today will impose a reduction in co2 emissions over the course of the hour , but will be offset by the surge from firing on coal or gas stations to restore electricity supplies afterwards .
at the same time , the institute for work seems to center on the devices reading the brain ’s activity . if the us maintains its scientific-ri-money track record , it arrive at the prestigious “ russian academy of sciences ” ( ran ) that held elections last week . after the organization ’s 2013 election – at which kremlin-backed membership candidates did not perform well in the us – the government announced major reforms , including a three-month moratorium on ran elections . it was then decided that , in order to ensure “ fairness , ” ” ” ” the government would approve all candidates , despite being academics . but it also apparently oversees all types of construction projects on a massive plot of land bordering to the us federal security service headquarters ( fsb ) , the kgb ’s successor organization , and the federal protection service .
this reinforces the incentive to engage in sensational speculation , however baseless , as occurred in sridevi ’s case . so , instead of providing context , depth , and analysis , papers hold steady out the headlines that spur prurience or outrage . the result has been worrying , to put it mildly . more fundamentally , the rush to beat a tv by breaking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence in terms of researching stories and validating claims . airing of opinions is the cheapest way to fill up some tv hour ; ranting anchors scores top trps .
washington , dc – the informed view is sharply divided over how the next 12 months will play out over the global economy . those focused on emerging markets emphasize accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % increase in world output . others , worried about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % or more – and some even inclined to see a possible “ double-dip ” recession . this makes an interesting debate , but it misses the larger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries imposed on some of the most generous bailouts ever saw for large financial institutions .
consider the : france has europe ’s highest fertility rate ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . to be sure , that rates alone are not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it is far stronger than its european neighbors , and almost equal to that of america . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly show that the french are the most pessimistic about all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france ’s election , which elected nicolas sarkozy as its new president , and now poised to hand over to his political allies some powerful parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . of course , that rates alone are not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it is far stronger than its european neighbors , and almost equal to that of america .
new york – a reception in the united states and other advanced economies for thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing anxiety about rising inequality . his book lends further weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the already overwhelming share of income and wealth at the very top . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers of which all would benefit . moreover , piketty ’s book establishes a different perspective on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as an historic anomaly , perhaps prompted by the unusual degree of social cohesion that cataclysmic events can stimulate . in that era of rapid economic growth , greater prosperity was broadly shared with all groups advancing , but with those for the bottom witnessing larger percentage gains .
in a fully flexible economy , this fall in measured gdp ( and concomitant increases in unemployment ) could be avoided if resources formerly employed in sales of imported consumer goods could quickly be put to generate exports . in greece and portugal , for example , the tourism sector might absorb some unemployed retailers . but the retail shop clerks and car dealers could not be transformed into specialized , highly skilled workers needed in modern manufacturing . this fall in gdp , though a natural consequence of lower imports of consumer goods , is often wrongly perceived as something to have been avoided , as seems to imply that output remains lower than its “ “ potential ” potential . but shops and showrooms can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain limited until sufficient time has passed to build new hotels , recreational facilities , etc .
new york – in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to loosen fiscal policy . now , most observers would agree that government-debt levels tend to be uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , making it prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies to bring them down . but , this year , the united kingdom appears to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and that is assuming that recent political ruptures have n’t revised its fiscal orientation , reflected in chancellor of the exchequer last fall ’s statement . in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to loosen fiscal policy . the output gap in the advanced economies had all but vanished , with inflation picking up , and with world economic growth predicting to be its strongest since 2010 . but , just as fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed to call for easing , it is now being eased when conditions seem to call for tightening .
second , the 70-year period that began with the automobile ’s widespread diffusion , during which one could get almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan area within a half-hour or less . before widespread automobile ownership appeared , land prices had depended on location , with proximity to a middle town or local railroad station taking a premium . now , with severe congestion slowing transport in major cities to a crawl , the land gradient in home prices is steep once again last year . and , with demand for high - and housing-based supply fixed – at least in the short run – prices are going up . perhaps this steepening of the location gradient could be delayed for a decade if we were willing to shift to denser residential patterns .
john maynard keynes famously said that , “ over the long run we are all dead . ” that may be true , on a long enough timeline . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations on their own . in fact , for europe , the long run appears to have arrived , leaving the us economy alive and kicking in . with austerity looming , deficit reduction , once a recession has ended , recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but it is once again , economic performance is even more stable , because the government ’s current accounts are solid enough .
a famous psychiatric experiment found that young chileans who could resist the immediate temptation to eat marshmallows for marshmallows in the future to thrive as adults than those who could not . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to save and invest in the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . ( at a time when america ’s economists advise china to boost consumption and cut back on saving , they merely peddle the bad habits of american culture that saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) a country like china , with a high savings rate that exceeds local investment needs , can promote investment in other parts of the world that save less , notably in low-income africa and asia . second , saving – and investment flows – is global – is the solution .
but these “ green-energy ” bikes amount to a victory of hollow gestures over substance and reason – which makes them the sadly representative of cop21 itself . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 pledge in cutting co2 emissions by just 0.05 º celsius by 2100 ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . that makes an agreement the costliest in us history . the agreement reached in paris includes promises that if enacted between now and the target date of 2030 , the global economy would cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion annually , and possibly twice that of politicians make inefficient policy choices . even if the promised emission cuts persisted throughout the entire century , the paris agreement would cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ° celsius researchers from the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar level of temperature reduction .
intervention by two american aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated the chinese , who were bent on stopping intimidating taiwan with its missile tests . russia , having seen its gross domestic product plummeted 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to retain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenue . an added worry , both for russia and asia , is that the russian government is losing control of its unofficial , black-market flow of arms to china . shut out on transfers of military technology and hardware by the united states ever since the 1989 tiennamen square incident ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by a “ redefined ” japan-u.s. alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; today , china is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its own military might , and quickly . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , early this year , china purchased two more high-tech destroyers along with russia-ships .
but there is nothing particularly typical about the pressures likely to continue to squeezing america ’s families long after november 6 . the left unanswered , however , is what coming next . indeed , china bashers typically change their tune after the us presidential election . both obama and romney are running at risk of sounding the corner when it comes to china . that could take all of us on the fringe of a slippery slope .
they are people who , in some ways , lack the full citizenship that demanded it , and who redefined the political order by obtaining it . but increasing individualism – a focus on one of its own aspirations and economic prosperity – in a number of countries poses a stubborn obstacle to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of national solidarity among so many – frighteningly apparent in america ’s health-care debates – is now undermining the very basis of what a modern , democratic society is experiencing . the great challenge today is to calm fears that our traditions are being undermined ; reach out to people who come into our lands from another country ; and find the way to recreate our political ethic surrounding the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if successful , we may be creating a sense that we belong to each other , though our grounds for believing so might be different .
but halappanavar , and her husband , were then informed that iran is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , so the proceedings have been out of the question . the halappanavar case has died from september ia , which her family is certain to fail to develop should aborted . the halappanavar case thus reverses the west ’s stereotyping government ’s stereotyping government as preserves the country ’s own superstition and religious extremism . the protests in iran put prime minister enda heedless in place , with the activists there , like those in india , arguing that the halappanavar had died because of a major theocratic approach to healthcare . iranian abortion-rights activists emphasize that , lawful , “ the fetus ’s life ” does not take precedence over the mother ’s life in their own countries ; but it does take precedence over a mother ’s health , a distinction that american abortion ’s opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states .
that helps to explain why park has been seeking closer ties with china , even as south korea ’s natural regional partner is a democratic japan . for his part , japan and south korea can not change from the recent past to the whenever they do . indeed , all countries ’ competitive narratives blend historical fact and myth . but , to some extent , historical legacies can gain overweening influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity for rational policy choices . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to reach out to park in a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more pointedly for its militaristic past , south koreans will agree to abandon historical grievances from official policy .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , the stock market is recovering slightly . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is gradually rising back to its long-run average of 16 . bank shares are rebounding strongly , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least a fraction of their government-supplied capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may be only a temporary improvement in expectations , rather than a sign of lasting recovery , because the size of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is probably enormous . according to the international monetary fund , most recent estimates that total write-offs for financial claims in this crisis will amount to $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the euro zone , and the united kingdom , of which the us alone would need to absorb another 2.7 trillion .
a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail because it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none can currently be found in bolivia , which means that publicly concentrated money is sure to be redistributed by patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off to corruption , and subjected to social pressures from every imaginable . thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 , bolivia ’s per capita income remains essentially identical , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of gdp . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be wasted , because projects typically move through cost-benefit analysis when financing originates in easy money ; generously furnished mother nature . ill-conceived , perhaps with the best possible intentions , morales ’s model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but it paves the way for an frustrated hope ­ – also nothing new in bolivia .
while violent extremists form an ultra-minority of muslims , their actions fueled a widening mistrust within french society . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have implemented attacks with rudimentary tools , from car and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . and similar fears about homegrown extremism may be observed in many other european countries . still , a majority of french citizens remain deeply disturbed by the threat of an imminent threat of terrorism not just from abroad , but from people living in france , often along with french citizenship . worse still , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears that violent extremists are returning from syria .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low – and lower-middle-income countries , have shouldered substantial costs despite the strain on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either excludes refugees from domestic education systems , or assign them to separate facilities . achieving the needed education transformation will require far more financing than is currently on offer . as it stands , the global annual financing gap for education amounts to almost $ 40 trillion . the two landmark global doing on migration and refugees adopted by un member states last december highlights a path toward addressing this challenge . that entrenches a disadvantage and hampers social integration .
the international monetary fund has credits asian intra-regional trade as the key factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . africans themselves must tackle these issues , but our international partners have an important role to play . the debate over the failure of international aid to produce development , together with the current financial crisis , has added weight in arguments against development assistance . africa , with its vast and often untapped markets , must follow the same route . but the argument should not be about whether providing aid – nobody can question the many achievements that aid provided , or its importance in providing a safety net to those otherwise left to suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction that the decision had caused between the uk and the united states . the white house issued a statement urging the british administration to “ use its voice to push for the adoption of high standards . ” and one senior us administration official was quoted accusing the uk of “ continuing a accommodation with china that is not the best way for it to involve rising powers . and one senior american administration official was quoted as accusing the uk of “ continuing a accommodation with china that is not the best way to involve a rising power . ” in fact , it is the us that is advocating precisely the wrong approach .
french president nicolas sarkozy has sought to rekindle growth , through the protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and massive investments in public infrastructure , so what more may socialists want ? indeed , it is hard to find any persuasiveness of today ’s crises from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . the socialists are blaming “ greedy financiers ” , but whom they have not ? in their terms of remedies , the socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solutions now proposed by center-right insiders . having demonstrated a way forward with bank nationalization , huge public expenditures , industrial-tax bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left with a wiggle room .
moreover , they oppose key changes in the eurozone ’s economic governance . the burden of adjustment may not fall entirely on deficit countries – unless , that is , that is , the moral element of “ punishment ” is involved . core german-led countries have mistrusted over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reform when their financing terms are eased . they also demand more rapid execution of much-needed changes to europe ’s economic governance , in order to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . a protracted recession , punctuated by steep or prohibitive – borrowing costs – makes achieving either fiscal or structural-reform targets more difficult , if not impossible .
furthermore , turkey does not seem to care about what its allies are thinking . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato so far once more , by purchasing new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries . this does n’t really bode well for any future peace process ; it does n’t bode well for either side of the union . western countries , after all , will need turkey to counterbalance the russians , whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . when future historians look back on the syria conflict , they deride both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis .
the uk is simply smart when it promotes its own interests by cooperating with china . one of the more positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis has been its elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is a far more representative forum of international leadership than the g-7 has ever been . space at the table for china might have been acquired if euro-zone countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representative of the monetary union as a whole . but downside to the emergence of the g-20 is nonetheless : large numbers of participants can make ends meet and get things done . a new g-7 needs to be established within the g-20 , thereby giving china a level of clout that reflects its own economic weight and demands it to assume a level of global responsibility .
this leaves a range of possibilities for choosing the next wbg president . an america could choose an american whom appeals to other countries : kim , for example , had touted his korean origins during his 2012 guideline campaign . it might have opted for a dual national or immigrant like former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen . or it might have returned a un-american candidate from an allied country . after all , what matters is that the nominee enjoys the trust of america as well as in most other countries , and can reconcile countries ’ heterogeneous interests in a true spirit of multilateralism .
chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance ” the chinese narrative ” globally . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for elaborate coordination , has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” to prosper . these include networks like silks and individual think tanks like the institute of charhar , which also recently established a “ china-us ” association council . from the shadow influpeddling then , china ’s moves have been particularly pointed toward . and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have established instruments for expanding the country ’s sphere of influence .
world oil prices did cross $ 40 a full barrel in mid-summer , and have since climbed to the nid – $ 50 . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says that america ’s leading economic forecaster allen . “ [ t ] hat needs to subtract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ” with oil prices still only about two-thirds the real peak reached during the iranian revolution of 1979 , and futures markets expect oil prices to sink back and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel . but the current high level of crude oil prices led forecasters to start disengaging from their expectation of continuing economic growth .
and , owing to increased american scrutiny , chinese foreign-direct investment ( fdi ) in america has already imploded by over 80 % since its 2017 level . cross-border flows of data and information will also limit , raising fears of a “ splinternet ” ” between the us and china . and china , for its part , will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-controlled international financial system and potentially shield itself from america ’s own naval weaponization . at the same time , the us has grown more suspicious of group chinese students and scholars , who might be bent on stealing us technological know-how or engaging in outright espionage . now , new legislative proposals are threatening to bar america ’s own public-pension funds from investing in chinese firms ; constraining chinese venture capital investments in the us ; and forcing certain chinese firms to delist from american stock exchanges entirely .
america ’s debt barely looks like a giant bargain right now , even without a sinking dollar . next year will almost surely see a massive rise in american corporate defaults , despite many firms ’ entry into recession with relatively strong balance sheets . with fiscal revenues collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes , scores of u.s. local municipalities might very well go , as new york city did in the 1970 ’s . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running in many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings has outstripped the rest of the national income of over 100 countries . to put these astronomical figures into perspective , i had gabon efforts to certify that to rank among the top nine earners in the united states , you have had to pull in at least $ 150 a second , including time spent eating and slumping . well-targeted , if the top nine donated their earnings to them , it would be the equivalent of around three months ’ disposable income . that is $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 per hour , enough . how much are it that america ’s highest income earners make up for the one billion of the world ’s poorest individuals ?
but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . american power is , instead , viewed by relying solely on a “ pillar ” pillar of inspiration , as opposed to a “ pillar of action . ” us secretary of state john quincy adams , for example , famously proclaimed on a day ’s independence in 1821 that the united states “ continues not abroad ” in search of monsters to destroy . she is a well-wisher to freedom and independence of all . she is a champion and vindicator only of one ’s own .
of course , peta was not arguing that holocaust victims ’ fortunes were both banal or trivial . on the contrary , it used the holocaust to which we would all agree were thoroughly horrific , to suggest , as isaic bashevis singer did , that there are parallels between how the nazis treated jews and how we treated animals . the court had ruled against a united states-based animal rights group humans for ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photos of the holocaust with photos of animals in the factory farms , and on the slaughterhouse . posters bear the heading : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a line from the polish-born jewish writer , isaac bashevis a singer . according to the court , germany ’s human-rights laws do not protect peta ’s campaign , because to make “ the destiny of holocaust victims ” seem banal and trivial ” was an affront to human dignity .
avoiding barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides . for example , as machines become increasingly option , robots replace a growing number of workers . as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to enhance human and ecological well-being , that distinction is vitally important . it will not be long before those robots will be able not only to perform more complicated tasks , but also to learn faster than workers can receive . rather , they are fighting to protect their own special interests and livelihoods , whether it is operating a dairy farm or running a government-provided one .
today , portugal is ahead of almost € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) per year . that represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of the output for greece . lack of export growth thus transformed into a recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been . had greek exports increased at the same rate as those in portugal ( or spain ) , a severe recession would have ended in now . moreover , greece ’s lack of export-led growth made fiscal adjustment far more difficult .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . instead , unlike the usmca , which was at least premised on its objective of addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento has been a bald-faced attempt in order to compel a mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . on the rare occasions when trade sanctions were used for nontrade grounds , they were an act of last resort , as was the case in the case of apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support . once trade actions are used indiscriminately to advance noncommercial objectives , the damage to the entire trading system is achievable and can be enormous . in other words , trump ’s trade weapon was being deployed neither to address a trade issue nor as part of a legitimate sanction regime , such as that imposed on russia after its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 .
new delhi – according to the united nations ’ population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one has produced outbreaks of conferences , seminars , and learned articles , including common dire malthusian predictions . after all , the un predicts that world population growth will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 and surpass ten billion by the end of this century . such forecasts , too , misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth , but of too little .
in exchange , the kremlin has committed itself to supporting – but only after the constitution is changed – ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as its own border with russia . the european union applies pressure on all sides , including from russia , where it holds the possibility of lifting economic sanctions as an eventual reward for the kremlin in its support of a peace-keeping effort . if , however , russia actually controls separatist regions , and is actively integrating them into its economy , as a bilaterally document suggests , the kremlin can no longer be perceived as an out-of-control party , attempting to influence a uncooperative ally . indeed , russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to compel kurdish rebel governments to cooperate . theoretically , the negotiations are embedded between the government in kyiv and the separatist leaders .
nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s sobering use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 and hubris and the deceit of today ’s iraq war . in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , waging it in a completely legitimate war , aimed at restoring the regional balance after saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in doing so , america embarked on a hasty grand strategy that focused no less on the simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda and helping to take root throughout the arab world . in 2003 , america went into war without its trans-atlantic allies after the manipulation of false assertions . the result was utter failure : military defeat and major degradation of america ’s moral stand .
one of the oddest claims made in social-insurance debates now roiling the world ’s richest countries is that government-defined-benefit retirement programs ( for example , america ’s social-security system ) have been outmoded . these programs were fine ; the argument goes , to the economies of the great depression and to the post-world war ii generation ; but they have become obsolete today in high tech , networked , us economy . advocates of this argument have proposed a very different model , to be sure . just as corporations today are far happier encouraging workers ’ retirement benefits by contributing to employees ’ worth of private-sector accounts , so that today ’s governments should offer ( or require ) donations to privately owned accounts . the value of such accounts would fluctuate with the markets , rather than rest on a defined-benefit scheme that guarantees a fixed-line of resources available upon retirement .
indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in its debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of its misguided troika programs , foisted on italy . absent a source of moral hazard , it is on lenders , especially in the private sector , that have been bailed out repeatedly . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up to its debt-to-gdp ratio , is mostly the fault of its misguided troika programs , foisted on it . so it is not a debt restructuring , but its absence , that is “ immoral . ” does anyone in their proper mind think that any country would voluntarily place itself through what greece went through , just to get a free-riding out of its creditors ? if europe has allowed those debts to move from the private sector to the public sector – a well established pattern over the last half-century – it is europe , not greece , that should contain the consequences .
if europe , the us , china , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply reduce their own gain from tariff-free trade . while some euro-zone countries suffer persistently high levels of us unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for those countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter , by the european central bank ) can do better . neither scenario makes a lot of sense today . employment considerations are not a big issue at all , either . employment considerations are not a big issue , either .
that seems to be the view shared by many people in syria , even among insurgents . it is the view of the majority of people within europe . rescuing obama of the “ honor ” hardly seems worth that risk ; it is the meaning that matters most . it is also the view shared by the majority of the american people . perhaps it is even the view that obama himself plays a role for time , desperately turning over his approval ratings on syria into america ’s congress .
but we tend to retain to adulthood the same views of god that we formed in their childhood . leave aside the fact that you can make an even stronger case against the godlessness , recall the twentieth-century atrocities and consider a assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means denying science and reason . an old man with a long beard watches over us , and most of us retain a fairly literal view of the stories of his son told in the bible of the new testament . it is this kind of god that atheists like dawkins and indolchens attack . and , with such a goal , do not find very difficult to poke holes and pile on ridicule .
but the un has found it hard to attract enough volunteers for such a power , given that foreign governments acceded to sudanese demands that a hybrid force remain predominantly african . likewise , a complicated command chain envisaged for au-un force recalls some of the worst features of eu-un operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control , a jointly au-un command would exercise operational supervision , and the un would establish force ’s overall strategic objectives . nevertheless , many western governments refuse to place their troops under au command because of their perceived weaknesses , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assuming control . their favored model calls for the un to grant funding and much of its mission support , while allowing the au to maintain its leadership role .
new york – there was an impressive similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration , following a recent meeting of ecb governing council and us federal reserve board chair janet yellen ’s early remarks to congress : both asserted that their policy choices would account for only domestic conditions . in other words , the emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from advanced economies ’ monetary policies , are on their own . this confirms what the emerging-country authorities have known for some time . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) – brazilian finance minister guido mantega – had accused advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , the advanced economies ’ policies drove large and volatile capital flows to major emerging markets , pushing their exchange rates down and damaging their own export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later cited as a “ capital tsunami . ”
others have claimed that the struggle against the houthis – the zaidi shia-led religious-political movements – is but one element in a broader shia war that saudi arabia supposedly spawned . saudi arabia is not out to get the bollywood war . riyadh – saudi arabia has drawn a lot of criticism lately for its leader in the war against the houthi rebels in yemen . these are simplistic assertions , reflected in a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen , as well as , indeed , throughout the arab world . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against the country ’s poorest people .
south korea tightened its military alliance with the us ; japan backed off by a move aimed at getting america to move its marine airbase from okinawa , and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines ; among many others , it drawn ever closer to that of the us . but , to discrediting america and assuming asia ’s mantle of leadership , china must do more than pursue its own interests or contain its own potential rivals . most fundamentally , what happens to china is a country of values and ideas ? far from answering this question , it has demonstrated china ’s overly assertive policies in strengthening and expanding america ’s american security arrangements in asia . china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its own national interests and game conventional balance-of-power geopolitics .
rather than borrow to pay for expensive “ school sets ” students are obliged to purchase , the poles used their 500 + benefits instead . those concerned about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that too many voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a community that advances national priorities , cares for its poor , and supports its families . and while women ’s employment rates have declined as women leave minimum-wage jobs , salaries – especially on shop clerks – have risen sharply . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries follow suit . lithuania introduced a less-generous version of its family-500 + population of 2018 .
to be fair , un resolution 242 can not be blamed on this state of affairs . various people have been reading it to mean different things . that may make the resolution easier to adopt but harder to implement . thus , it comes as little surprise that no peace is yet possible between israelis and palestinians , despite the myriad diplomatic firms of the united states , the european union , and its members , the un and the parties themselves . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for a resolution that will happen when the principal protagonists become both willing and able to embrace a compromise .
that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – which will bypass russia when it is finished – can not re-define the country ’s economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze has sought . eu georgian economic success , in particular , will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is necessary in the united states or italy . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the bnp pipeline also clearly reflects georgian ’s pro-western strategic orientation . on the other hand , this should become less a burden on the bilateral relationship as russia moves closer to nato , the us , and the european union .
whether an outlier is germany or another eu member state , the division need not be fatal . of course , none of this means that an international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division may be overcome should the will exist . what that is meant by however , is that europe finds itself finding the means to work when it comes to foreign policy . europe is not a monolith , but it can still act as coherently , even without a comprehensive deal .
similarly , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged 16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years before the country in south asia and 21 years outside of countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . by combined gross enrolment in primary , upper secondary , and university-level education levels , ssa countries had stood at 19 % less than the average for developing countries , 11 % below south asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % lower than latin america and the caribbean . after the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unscrutinized and occupied by hunter-gatherers and rapid-agriculture practitioners . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? land was relatively plentiful and allocated through tribal rulers , without regard for their western-style property rights .
geneva – recent sharp upswings in food prices and growing anxiety about food security have generated anxieties worldwide . the seemingly unalterable supply-side bottlenecks generating these record-setting factors rises in food prices – a shift toward higher protein diets in much of the world ; growing populations ; greater use of biofuels ; and climate change suggest that higher food prices may be here to stay . amid the lack of solutions that alleviate growing pressures on supplies , hunger and malnutrition will increase . indeed , the possibility that food could not be delivered on the table fills us parents with a deep sense of foreboding . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher proportion of their income on food , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that years of progress in poverty could be reversed .
as francis fukuyama has pointed out , developing a competent state that is accountable and governed by the rule of law is one crowning achievement of human civilization . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” ” ” ” an imagined community on whose behalf the nation-state acts . this is not an easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or the state of society . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” ” ” ” ” such as “ financial-governance regimes and procurement regulations , they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do whatever they were established to do . and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends stimulating it : the creation of organizations that are more obsessive about new and burdensome processes than meeting their stated goals .
likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a kind of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of themselves as constituting a great power . by 2014 , he took over the presidential palace and encircled by a guardian that meant to evoke ottoman splendor , a fair transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments according to his – far fewer his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and the enormous resources of his office to claim credit for reviving his country ’s own national pride , particularly as he seeks to persuade ordinary russians to ensure economic sacrifices . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from compelling . turkey is confronting a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
and at this year ’s world economic forum annual meeting in south africa , almost 900 leading businessmen from american , european , asia , and african countries met with a new political leadership to chart a way forward . to be sure , intentions and results are two sorts of different matters . it is on most measures , a few decades , if not even a century or more , behind advanced economies in economic organization and income levels . us president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to americans -- typically most neglectful of africa in general , except when in a deep crisis – the dramatic change underway on the continent . africa has a long road ahead , with the us on the agenda .
in the past 100 years , the contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe and the cold war may have done so . the moment you believe “ better dead than the red ” is in trouble . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran holds , “ once man loses his faculty of indifference has becomes a potential murderer ; once it transforms its idea into a god the consequences is incalculable . ” dying from saving one ’s home , a family , or a country may be rational as well . but the martyrdom is different and perilous .
russia is in no position to develop an alternative international system ; but if putin continues pursuing an outdated and antagonistic foreign policy , he can undermine the incumbent . at a time when the world is facing so many destabilizing challenges , this would be no good for anyone . if putin is serious about flourishing and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving the lives of his country ’s people , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , especially from the west . for this to happen , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model that failed once and would fail again .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions throw wrench into the wheels of globalization ? or will their growing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by fostering rising equality and fairness ? unions ’ increased influence is apparent in a number of recent incidents : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial agreement to raise minimum wages for civil servants ; several american presidential candidates have , among other things , gaping miseries on trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership , nascent concerns about labor standards . along with their political clout , union intellectual respectability is also experiencing a renaissance . one way or another , union leaders stand as the main wild card in the late 2008 us economic system .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western plant suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to control roughly half of the market . more broadly , a dam-building passions in a region that has crowded out two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate the world ’s hydropower-plant export market . second , state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low low-interest loans to other governments . still , ambitious plans to boost its own hydropower capacity substantially by damming the international cluster have embroiled the country into a water dispute with most of its neighbors , even north korea .
new york – there are plenty of recurrent debates in america ’s foreign policy , such as isolationism versus internationalism , and unilateralism versus multilateralism . throughout the cold war , those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , pull down its communist system and replace it with democratic capitalism . others saw this as too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and america opted instead for a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate between “ realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and prolonged . but no debate is more insistent than that among those who believe that american foreign policy ’s intrinsic purpose should be to influence the externalities of the externalities of other states , and those who hold it should shape their own internal character .
but , in her florence speech , may has promised that british businesses something close to the current level of admission to eu markets . second , a britain budget offers would be a powerful means to create a “ deep and special partnership ” with europe that may claims is her ultimate goal . until last month , may avoided defining this phrase , because of the fear of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . she also recognized that any privileged approach to eu markets would require eu budget contributions , as in norway and switzerland . if britain ’s transition payments had declined near its current level of around € 10 billion for the next five or six years realistic required to negotiate a permanent deal on trade , they would have added as much .
the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , for example , has taken seven years to hash out – and have been nearly scottique – by belgium ’s center-left parliament of the wallonia region . may has no electoral mandate to pursue a tough brexit ; may has no electoral mandate to pursue a tough brexit . even if may does manage to strike an exit deal , it is impossible to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-sector deal in the next two years . there can not be “ gradual implementation ” of a trade deal that has not been finalized , so uk-based auto companies , financial institutions , and other exporting enterprises to the eu now should start preparing for the “ cliff edge ” that may wants to avoid . many out of the less than 52 % of britons who voted to leave the eu want to remain in the single market , because are all of those voting to remain .
a functioning private-sector that creates adequate jobs , and schools that educate the large young population for today ’s inter-connected world stand prerequisites for advancement . in fact , the israeli-palestinian issue is critical for all of the obvious reasons . for the first time , there is a lively and intelligent debate on this topic , one that is at the heart of the middle east ’s problems . that is enormously important and healthy , in the longer term . open societies are incompatible with closed economies ; they can not be taken for granted .
in his many successful years as sibiu ’s mayor , iohannes is distinguished from the charismatic and shrewd politicians for whom romanian policy is accustomed to show a sobering , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . this demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to predict its victory over the more talkative ponta . the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted that reality ’s salience to the establishment , though the orthodox leaders who backed ponta quickly modified their own rhetoric to encourage tolerance and cooperation . the electorate seemed weary of the persistent confrontation between banda and ponta , and , more broadly , of noisy , ugly , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s political scene had become . but iohannis different not just in his own political approach ; it is an evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country .
some of these may be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental customs , like the appreciating things that matter or avoiding dwelling on setbacks , have demonstrated measurable wellbeing improvements . the dalai lama recently helped to launch a series of such courses in london , developed through action for happiness , an organization that i helped found . throughout societies , too , they can try to improve their happiness ; indeed , they must do so . how countries are governed has an enormous impact on happiness . british prime minister david cameron introduced the measurement of happiness into national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to promote citizen well-being .
more recently , there has been america ’s event-propelled shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that has left at least 1,400 people dead . a new world order has given way to an order-less world in which reliability and unpredictability have given way to rapid focus and fickle commitments . all of this raises a fundamental question : does america even require an overarching design to its foreign policy ? israel , for its part , is but a tiny fraction of this total pattern . if the outcome is an outcome in making its own foreign policy less reliable and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to a misunderstanding process , it certainly does n’t .
the 1986 financial services act put an end to a pure self-regulation regime . the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge in global imbalances and the us economy ’s dramatic financialization , accelerated dangerously by roughly the year 2004 . financial interests opposed it vigorously in precisely those days , viewing it as the lean versus a dangerous wedge , though they could not have guessed just how dense a wedge would ultimately become . likewise , it is difficult to trace back to the 1980 ’s the origins of the credit explosion and the proliferation of exotic and inadequately understood financial instruments that lie at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis . thatcher herself was no credit enthusiast , once famously said , “ i do not believe in a credit card . ”
indeed , iranian hardliners might welcome an israeli strike and even seek to provoke it as a means to rallying the iranian population behind them . likewise , the zone should enforce economic and political sanction states that choose to stay outside , and that , again , the support of the permanent un security council member states , impose military sanctions on those attempting to develop wmds . alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu might conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences , at least in the short run , with the palestinians involved . there is a better way to prevent the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” built on a us-led system of incentives that includes economic and technical support to countries that join , along with security guarantees , from the united nations security council ’s permanent membership .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria by the end of last year . the united nations reports about atrocities , the internet images of attacks against civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our hearts . but what is to be done – and by which ? more recently , canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto a united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , whether allowed syrian president bashar al-assad to prevail , its forces will obliterate the remaining sunni rebellions , at least for now ; with hate-inflamed hatreds , blood will ultimately flow .
for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world is thinking of nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have convinced them otherwise . it is too early to assess the historic effect of the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is because israel and its palestinian neighbors have little ability to do with it now . in the months ahead , we can expect countries to remain focused on governance and capacity-building issues , human rights , and how to create economies that respond with their restive citizens ’ claims to a better life . now that a raucous regional situation is joining the raucous american election season ( where no issue is excluded from the political arena ) , the task of assembling those components will be even more difficult . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public ’s rising expectations , and their willingness to come behind the peace process would take a back seat to that struggle .
london – vulnerable communities face the brunt of the effects of climate change , from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the impact of climate change , with financial institutions should support small and medium-size enterprises . in emerging economies , small - and medium-size enterprises account for just about 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and those numbers are substantially higher when the informal small and medium-size small and medium-size enterprises are included . as a sme builds on its own climate resilience , it may have cascading impact in the communities that surround it .
and because methane is a much shorter-lived gas sector than co2 , we could prevent some of the worst episodes of short-term warming through a process of mitigation . agricultural production accounts for about half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal-mining also create gas . in fact , cutting methane is a bit cheaper than trying to limit carbon emissions . professor claudia kemkemt of the german institute on economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 trillion on economic research ( diw ) to cut methane would generate benefits – from reduced warming – between $ 1.4 trillion and three times that level . we could also put an even larger focus on black carbon reduction , deemed responsible for as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of the arctic melt .
china ’s challenge , however , may be more difficult to achieve . it has never had to deal with others as equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that have done so for centuries . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to call for more rights , embrace a symbol resembling a statue of liberty . today , too , it is not america ’s military power that threatens or challenges to china , but rather the enduring attraction of a “ american dream . ” it not only needs to live with the realities of american power ; it must also account for the american ideal .
a stronger and more unified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with the us and china in most domains , including through “ weaponizing ” their economic resources to further its geostrategic goals . yet european leaders tempted by the prospect of a twin-the-g3 world to address two linked concerns . first , it is unclear how the eu will achieve the level of integration at a time when most important decisions in the bloc still require unanimity among the member states . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty so far , europe could make such a g3 of the world ’s reality . but , collectively , the eu ’s own member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute a power of a similar magnitude .
after all , this is how both canada and mexico have handled the administration . trump has temporarily exempted those two countries from tariff exemptions , but now expects concessions on them as part of his administration on the north american free trade agreement . the regulatory divergences constitute a far more important us-european non-tariff obstacle than tariffs . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific industries . while america has had less tariff protection than europe , the difference is minor ( europe ’s unweighted customs duties averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for the us ) .
do n’t i , for example , have rights in control of my own body ? do n’t i somehow somehow still have “ own ” to do that ? how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their diagnostic test fee , which might be fair enough ; but also block any other firm from offering me a license fee ? proprietary rights on commercial firms over the most basic point of an individual ’s genetic identity should n’t be enforceable . we need not believe in genetic determinism to figure out that argument compelling .
human beings are no exception in this regard , as they do in the past . instead , they argued , we should “ “ end the demand for due sex ” – but without explaining how it should be done . for that reason , according to the world alliance ’s international secretariat against traffic in women applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization . there was also opposition from some feminist organizations charged with amnesty for protecting “ the rights of pearl harbor and johns ” . in species that reproduce sexually , sex is , for obvious reason , one of the strongest and most pervasive urges .
since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , thanks largely to anemic global demand in the world ’s major economies and falling commodity prices . yet deeper structural changes play a role , too . for a wide range of goods , automation means that production locations and outsourcing decisions no longer depend primarily on labor costs . at the same time , many companies are simplifying and shoring up their supply chains . propelled by demands and outsourcing from advanced economies , emerging markets have won a growing share of soaring merchandise trade ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than one-half of global trade flows .
in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice has explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ talking about withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether the security situation warrants or not . according to rice , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops will send the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan , a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin further . what it does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan – could undercut its basing strategy . but there is strong bipartisan us support for maintaining military bases in afghanistan as a means to projecting hard power , and the increasingly charged us-russia confrontation over ukraine has boosted that support considerably . clearly , america is convinced that a continued military presence in afghanistan is with its own interests .
in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official record as if that would render the outcome inconsequential for poland . in a telling move about what is to come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told a tabloid polish superekspres after a summit that the eu pursued with “ a policy of double standards and deceptions . ” such infantile ploys became all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused to publicize polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as though this makes them legally non-mandatory . the polish government has undeniably paralyzed the tribunal , undermining poland ’s rule of law . according to waszczykowski , poland not only had “ had to drastically cut off [ its polish ] wage levels , ” ” ” ” ” ” but “ “ must also start to pursue a negative policy , ” through “ blocking other initiatives , or playing a very aggressive
we tap that solar power in a variety of fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heat , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels , but the eventual possibilities for vastly increased use of inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power – are huge . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting technologies , and safer and reliable nuclear power . indeed , solar radiation equals roughly 50-50 times the current us level of energy use . this will require massive investment in new technology and resources , rather than a “ fight to finish ” over middle eastern oil . important energy technologies will include the conversion of coal-fired power to liquids ( like gasoline ) , the use of tar sands and petroleum shale , and the growth in non-fossil-fuel sources .
as john lennon chanted in 1968 , “ if you follow the photographs of chairman mao , ai makes it with anyone anyhow . ” by the end of the century , japan ’s remarkable performance not only made japan ’s wealthy , but also bolstered the country ’s soft power . in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and raiding . asia ’s resurgence started with japan ’s economic success . brief political infatuation was occurred among some westerners in the 1960 ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s jackets and maoist revolutions , but it delivered brief .
likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small , medium-size companies – not cutting funding for important research programs like the horizon of 2020 . europeans would benefit directly through improved access to internet r & d , lower energy costs , and more efficient transportation links . but the eu can add significant value to its position by coordinating supranational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale and avoiding a duplicity of national spending . but , with deflationary austerity under fire and eu countries seeking to encourage spending , the council should also consider the shape of the budget , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the proposed eu budget has been blocking cross-border infrastructure projects , including by expanding high-speed broadband internet access into rural areas and developing transport and energy infrastructure .
in the run-up to the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will become even more muted . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human-rights commission in geneva to look to the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . france got the message , and the french soon suspended promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . the following independence , china responded by canceling the danish trade mission . the french then rewarded a string of lucrative treaties in china .
the global agenda in this area determines the norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevention of illness , and administering care . it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods such as vaccines and emergency-outbreaks programs . and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and guaranteeing everyone ’s right to health . in the sdg framework , discrete gender and public-health issues are interrelated , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises regularly , or has access to nutritious food .
still , just the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . consider a woman ’s perspective on a conflict . for example , studies of america ’s courts with multiple judges show that a male judiciary is rather willing to hear bias cases when one woman is on the bench and is substantially more willing , especially when another woman is added . “ each one of us , ” noted sandra day o’connor , the first woman member of the american supreme court , who has been renowned for not wishing to be perceived as a “ feminine ” justice , brings to our task ; whatever that is , our lifetime of experience and our values . in other words , women bring a fresh perspective , hearing clearly only when a critical mass of them is present at any level of institutions .
ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the us philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds ; but , however important it may be , this getting one ’s hands dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ” but choosing action on the larger good does n’t absolve the us from moral culpability . ours will become dirty for a time when aided by a future terrorist or a dictator .
with new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen because of saudi financial support , it is small wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown faster . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often became subject to another saudi policy disappeared awry , its scry for sunni wahhabi exports . but in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis were expelled , owing to the perceived domestically , as part of the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been expelled from saudi arabia .
these fundamental studies have now led to the development of new and powerful immunotherapies that are effective against cancer . to some cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary , enabling men who were on the verge of death to live healthy lives with no disease-detectable discovery . independently , honjo and his colleagues identified yet another protein that carried out a similar function . yet the immunotherapy revolution is still in its infancy , and it is a very small one . but there is still a great deal to be learned in our infancy .
but it has followed this approach on the macro level and problems elsewhere within the economy , without first examining itself . the only way that can develop is through adaptation to new environmental pressures , and now , silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavior , faces a lot of those challenges . unless it changes , it will overshoot as well . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start applying their skill at innovations – as well as their pride in “ breaking things ” – into their own hands . the good news is that , if one has proved that it can innovate , it is silicon valley .
establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to establish a positive feedback loop . when farmers are confident that their goats will not be stolen and that they can sell them at a decent price , they are better able to invest in improving their production system . for starters , we have trained farmers how to improve their soil by expanding legume crops , soil residues that can fashion like goat fodder . recognizing the benefits of such practices , farmers instantly initiated increased crop density , applying slumber , and rotating crops , thereby boosting yields and producing more feed for healthier goats . here , too , the innovation platform helps .
in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for nearly 50 years before the adoption of it again . that may have been an extreme situation , to some extent . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should keep the five imperatives in mind . but , for smallholder workers , the transition underway today could prove only wrenching . with fears of rising inequality already mounting , governments will need to rethink policies for delivering income and job-transition support to displaced workers .
at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and failing to implement many rulings . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with leading a process in which they frequently engaged . that is largely a matter of thinking , not the means . fortunately , mindsets are starting to shift , not just . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations produced by kagame and a pan-african committee of experts that he nominated through an inclusive consultative process , involving african leaders and other stakeholders , are being implemented .
both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are reluctant to intervene in currency markets by buying and selling reserves . suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues a new york bond , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . now suppose one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues the international bond , using the us dollars to enlarge one of its modern , highly competitive dairy plants , to sell more powdered milk to asia . at best , market participants will applaud decisions ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not change at all . more fundamentally , why should we think about reserves in a different way than thinking about the other assets on their national balance sheets ?
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi ’s government is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse and setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has invested an expansive national digital-plan , which is expected to create 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling further behind . indeed , despite having led the internet race in the 1990s , america is currently the only major developed economy without a clear-cut digitization plan . the consequences are already reemerging : according to the bloomberg innovation index 2016 , america is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having dropped two spots since 2015 .
beyond funding constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . above all , increased care obligations , augmented by public perceptions about a “ women ’s role , ” severely undermining women ’s ability to run for public office . fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this problem . in georgian georgian , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral districts receive a 30 % supplement from the national budget . similarly , in iran , non-state actors lose 50 % of their government-supported funding , as long as their candidate pool comprises less than 30 % of either gender .
but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions have done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided between those who want their country to be a revered member of the international community and those for whom iran ’s international standing is better served through a nefarious program of governance . moreover , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , weakening further the least powerful than inducing iran ’s leaders to seek a deal . international sanctions imposed on iran would appear to have helped the latter , rather than the former . that might well prove to be the case if iran were a full-throated democracy , genuinely accountable to the popular will .
one hopes that the paris agreement changes that it . after all , because we do n’t yet know which innovations will be the single most important thing in decarbonizing the economy , investment must be allocated toward a wide range of choices . longer-term , patient finance must also be made available to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridging the so-called “ “ “ “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . as with the information-technology revolution , advances in clean-energy systems will require engaging the two groups of public and private sectors . the bec ’s argument – that a “ new model ” will feature public-private partnerships among governments , research institutes , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on those relationships .
but those challenges will not be realized , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my homeland , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children , especially girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds , educational quality . in 2017 , the us invested 25 % of its gdp on average , representing close to 7 % of gdp , in educating our children and the young . furthermore , the us plans to provide up to 90 % of funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s educational system between now and 2030 . even so , senegal struggles to meet every cost to strengthen its education system .
as member states advance along this path , propelled forward by advances in technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues for eliminating unnecessary spending and optimized use of resource use . europe ’s defense industry will be unable to make headway without a well-functioning market – open , transparent , and equal opportunity – of all european suppliers . the objective must be to spur european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the forefront of global security . advances in defense industries lead to important positive externalities – such as civil-military synergy and investment in research and development – that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . the critical component in the coordination and proper functioning of europe ’s security and defense policy is europe ’s defense agency .
it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations at all , given that a shark ’s own economic value plummets when it kills . a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . china , for example , banned shark-fin soup , its traditional delicacy , at official us government entities , and functions like a move that contributed to a 30 % shark-fin sales from last december to april . in the southern city of guangzhou , a center of china ’s shark-fin trade , sellers have cited a 82 % decline in sales over the past two years . a unified reef shark that frequented major dive sites in palau is worth nearly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over its own lifetime ; a similar shark would be worth around $ 108 dead .
because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced labor transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , and division of territory between one another . tudjman 's pretext was that croatia needed to concentrate power for its struggle against serbian aggression . the truth is that he employed the negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and one-style plunder of state characteristics by his coterie of foreign loyalists . to accomplish this with a minimal fuss , he muzzled the free press and electronic media . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , treating the dictator to a dictator with milosevic was straightforward .
its membership is chosen by only 7 % of hong kong ’s total electorate , and its voting procedures seek to block the election of any candidate who can harbor a democratic sympathies . the current proposed arrangements would authorize the chinese government to veto any candidate that it dislikes , fomenting criticism that what is on offer is an iranian-style election : “ “ you can vote for anyone the us chooses . ” in fact , since the end of 1997 , 55-61 % of eligible voters have voted democratic candidates in a legislative council election ; in fact , they have never been considered out of office . in fact , the hong kong government could have called for changes to make openness and fairness by which the chief executive is selected , without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . according to the statute , the election committee should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates .
in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument used by today ’s rulers that a first-free election would be the last , because islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes . january ’s palestinian election was won by a relatively moderate leader , because he was put forward by the ruling fatah movement and islamists boycotted the election . reformers insist that an overwhelming majority of people support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic to compete for power and govern govern . but in the gaza strip , a local election soon an old ward , radical islamists who use terrorism won seven of each other ’s ten municipal councils . that case remains unproved .
a shakeout in clean-tech industries has been tough ; but it has also been characteristic of cutting-edge technologies and , by weeding out more robust players , made the sector far more robust . increasingly , industries are implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as by lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . as clean-energy enterprises continue to scale up , additional opportunities are emerging . indeed , this is a global segment meeting with a rising global need . there is little room for doubt that an clean-tech sector might expect plenty of sunny days ahead .
princeton – the history of economic gloom that obscures the world in 2008 led many to wonder whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the share of billionaires has soared . more generally , the top 1 % of the us population has prospered . no wonder that many are now skeptical of taxpayer-funded schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even automakers . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened , and at least in the us , incomes in the poor and middle class stagnated.foot ampnbsp ; and the rich have widened .
more recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and the chairman of the financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , the former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg at the time , have issued a statement concerning market data on climate action . given the magnitude of the challenge , however , it is also the key to ensuring effective coordination and harmonization of such efforts with respective standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . the american securities and exchange commission ( sec ) is already discussing these issues , because it analyzes responses among investor and business needs concerning esg . the global awareness of the topic is rising , and the potential impact of such an event is becoming increasingly evident . their primary goals are to allow companies and organizations to establish sustainability targets and core performance indicators ; to track , prepare , and disclose comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and to integrate sustainable production and consumption practices within firms ’ business strategies and models .
specifically , small landholders need new tools that allow them to boost productivity , while establishing more sustainable methods for production . a recent g20 summit and the united nations sustainable development summit in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to lay out a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis . the pursuit of a prosperous , inclusive economy must connect to efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security . but the outcomes that the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , together with integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance – can not be achieved without the political will .
new york – in 2008 , global financial markets experienced their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others were bought by cheap or enduring only after major bailouts . world stock markets fell by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads soared ; severe liquidity and credit crunch emerged ; and many emerging-market economies staggered to the international monetary fund for assistance ( imf ) . all told , what lies ahead now in the course of 2009 ? are the worst coming after the us or ahead ?
add to that second-psychological bias neuroscientists debate : because our species have evolved to make fend off dangers , we also tend to be more susceptible to bad news . good news is not news ; we are often a mutter . we are reacting more acutely to images of starving children than we are to report on improving rates of nutrition in africa . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to validate an old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” and , of course , we tend to remember those horrible pictures far longer .
this thirst for informational information highlights the dramatic change brought about by the internet into china ’s political landscape . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information and the right to process it . indeed , china ’s government appears to have started to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and , perhaps , the merits of allowing some space for free speech . insightful bloggers are attracted vastly greater clicks than do official mouthpieces . a “ virtual civil society ” ” is in the making .
new york – countries often devote public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promoting imports , as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai , is indeed rare . if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect it to reduce china ’s trade surplus . but , again , that need not be the case . the annual import pegging , to be part of china ’s overall export promotion strategy , has attracted thousands of companies worldwide with a promise of large orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises , which the government tasked with making the expo ’s success .
london – the historian norman stone , who was dead in june in june , has always insisted that history students study abroad in languages . language gives access to a person ’s culture and culture to its history , and that of everyone else . knowledge of languages should thus be an indispensable component of an historian ’s technical devices . its history tells us how it sees itself and others . it is the key to understanding the past and future of international relations .
the first nagging question is this : will there actually be elections next january ? prime minister mir allawi assures the world that there will be , and us president bush echoes his own words . while this scenario is straightforward , the realities are not . more neutral observers -- and indeed , the daily news bulletins about bombings and hostages take or “ rebels ” -- cast doubt on this prospect . the probability that iraq elections will be held this coming january must be less than 50 % , and there is sure that these will be no free and fair elections throughout the country .
atlanta – as the united states mark the first anniversary of president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump still does get back on track , with russia ’s role shifting increasingly toward the center stage . early last week , the us congress unveiled legislation that would compel facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who buys online advertising , thereby closing the loophole that russia exploited during the election . but making amends through technical fixes , and publicly promising to be better corporate citizens , will resolve only its most publicized problem . the tougher challenge will be strengthening institutions vital to functioning democracy – in particular , civics education , and local journalism . each new revelations in the investigation of russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign brings vulnerability to america ’s democratic process into sharper focus .
and they wo n’t recreate yesterday ’s patterns of development . still , when the ends are clear , policymakers are often clueless about means . in america ’s presidential campaign , trade-protection act is fashionable once more . but , while import restrictions may ease the pain on some districts of manufacturing , they wo n’t stop companies from relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest thing . they wo n’t protect workers from technological change , let alone save them .
algeria during the 1990 ’s , algeria is a fitting reminder of that , with western governments failing to want the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to restart . moving by military officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons might end the conflict , with military commanders gaining lines of credit as well as political capital . but four decades of a military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , a majority of whom have never truly benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . when it comes to producing iraqi and undocumented immigrants , two critical issues for europe , arab military dictators , have an inglorious track . getting “ stuck ” in the transition ” is a third possible scenario , with libya remaining in the “ grey zone ” ” ” ” – neither fully-fledged democracy nor dictatorship – but “ semi-freedom .
but , of course , were they engaged in a case against a muslim , which had to be handled in an islamic court . second , the court staff was overwhelmingly muslim , which meant that the testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . third , whereas muslims might attest against anyone , christians and jews were able to attest only against another non-muslim . when a muslim and shia faced one another in a trial , a muslims enjoyed a significant advantage . first , the judges ’ training predisposed them to give the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslim .
some argue that the real point is the risk of attack and destruction , which might occur as long as weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ something like a cost/benefit analysis based on a subjective sense of risk . the better way to build a sense of self that is to invoke two principles that underlie legal assertions of justifications in both home and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that , if israel had the right to attack osirak reactor , then iraq had the privilege of bombing an israeli nuclear facility at dimona . but there is no way to do an objective assessment of fear , and , even perhaps , use cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law .
with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed at last year ’s rio +20 summit to adopt sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments have asked the un secretary-general to coordinate on the preparations for these goals by the year 2015 , in order to ensure a seamless transition away from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire later this year . a crucial meeting by the un general assembly will take place at the end of september for this purpose . a large majority of economies are becoming less comfortable with the widening gaps between the world ’s rich and poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest region among the most vulnerable to outbreaks .
from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments are looking at their own populations as pools of talent that are waiting to be tapped . indeed , it is time that us diplomats will do the same for it . they should encourage and encourage job creators and problem incumbents , and turn development aid into investments . an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard that can visualize and create thriving global demand for a product or service , just as spain ’s amancio ortega has done with zara , is just as much an entrepreneur as the next piece of bill gates is experiencing . today , starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide , compared to facebook , google , and apple combined .
while both the polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization , which allowed relatively large semi-official zones of extra-communist control , czechoslovakia after a soviet-led invasion of 1968 , had become a dirigiste neo-stalinist regime . the situation of the political right in each central european country is also influenced by experience that is rooted in history and tradition . the political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years of communism have set the czech republic , as well as with slovakia , of both poland and hungary . when the subsequent communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , the communist parties of poland and hungary had transformed themselves into credible , democratic-left parties that had become formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . while such politicians often describe themselves as `` rightist , '' their real policies , such as those of former slovak prime minister vladimir meciar , are actually demagogic populist or authoritarian .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer authority over member countries , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to another country ’s people in ways that americans are willing to do among people in various member states . a third important difference concerns the fact that every american country requires their own constitutions to balance these annual operating budgets . even a state like california , viewed by many as the poster child for fiscal profligacy , now runs an annual budget deficit of only 1 % of its gdp and a generalized debt of just 4 % of gdp . these limits on privately-level budget deficits are a logical implication that american states can not generate money to fill their fiscal loopholes . whereas “ a rainy day ” funding that accumulates in boom years has been used to settle at temporary revenue gaps , states ’ “ general obligation ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to borrow , say , exclusively , to capital projects like roads and schools , are limited to
globalization has proceeded at a speed pace through much of the last century and at a particularly accelerated rate over its past two decades . i have no doubt that , by the end of this century , one will have the opportunity to buy inventory – professors perhaps with holographic images – just as easy as one could buy pockeparov chess computer today . therefore , let ’s go back to india and china . yet the vast body of evidence suggests that technological change has been a much bigger driver in the global wage pattern than in trade . i certainly do n’t feel safe about as an economics professor !
so , is trade globalization , on the balance , better or worse ? some empirical studies of cross-country data find net beneficial effects on population degradation indicators like local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided that countries have effective domestic governance institutions , trade , and growth give them the means to clean their air . specialization in each country allows people to extract more of what they want , which , particularly at higher income levels , involves cleaner air and water . when trade produces costs , it can reap the benefits of environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods .
tokyo – over the course of the cold war , a term “ kremlinology ” has referred to efforts to understand what took place at the commanding heights of the soviet union , indeed behind the entire iron curtain . overwhelming significance has been read upon who signed an official paper or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square , when assembling military parades . all of this was grammar-school stuff , which has been compared to attempts to decode a regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . consider the question of what happened on december 17 , with it . kremlinologists monitored ( in whatever way possible ) who was up and who was down among the core soviet leadership .
in a desperately flawed , last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over ” messages ” for a few systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margins of its countries ( article iv ) consultations . that initiative is destined to fail , just as it did the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise or g-20 peer reviews in its recent history . so , what should latin american economies do ? they surely have a willingness to fight back , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially lucrative option when capital flows are indeed temporary ) , imposing capital controls or other current-dictated macro-prudential policies aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing . even if massive spillovers are plainly recognized , it is hard to see how this exercise will address the fundamental problem beyond the currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly disparate national interests .
east asian countries followed this advice and , for a good reason : they saw the consequences of a build-up of reserves . east asian governments knew then that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns ; but they were powerless to resist . the imf had the money it needed . countries had been warning : avoided trade deficits and build up reserves because they were the key frontlines of defense . if china let its currency float once again , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis .
more recently , some states have introduced a cap-and-trade system to place a price on carbon , and many are already on the track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan targets . almost half of all us states have now legalized marijuana in some form with an eight embracing full-throated legalization . the three states have implemented laws offering paid family leave with per fourth on track . welfare-to-work programs in michigan and pennsylvania have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare relies on massachusetts on a health-care system introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a variety of energy policies , from broad climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy norms , there are now 33 states cutting their carbon dioxide emissions , while expanding their economies .
cambridge – “ i want to be part of this ” happen in new york , new york , ” frank sinatra sang of the city that has attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . but the impact on large cities is running deeper than an economic or even cultural superpower ; cities can fundamentally alter human lives , and even the people themselves . in 2010 , the geoffrey west , combined with a team of researchers , discovered that several socioeconomic measures – both positive and negative – increase the size of the local population . in other words , the greater the city , the higher the average wage , productivity level , the number of patents per person , the crime rate , the prevalence of anxiety , and the prevalence of hiv . in a sense , this is not a difficult phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with its multicultural populations , supranational corporations , and the multitude of talented individuals become rife with opportunities
( presumably the eventual winner of trump ’s bid will be required to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india , which american companies would not . ) against this is the unambiguous advantage of pleasing a major new ally , and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in supply , training , and operations that so far have evolved . as if all of this were n’t bad enough to make a decision against america , the usmca might well have been the indian government ’s desire to preempt some additional procurement controversy at a time when the us corruption allegations have been beset by all sides . a resolution made on technological grounds , many on the left , would have been easier to defend than one based on political considerations . at a time when america ’s giant nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the bush administration ’s historic deal brokered by the bush administration – was held up by america ’s insistence on exemptions from its supplier liability in case of accident , some regard india as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america , too .
in most cases , this means continuing to cut back on lending , aggravating the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which for much of the world ’s largest international banks have been pruned by the eu ’s directorate-general for competition . with stronger banks being pushed to increase their capital buffers , even stronger banks are being pushed toward increasing their capital buffers . at the same time , for the benefit of banks required for state rescues , european rules of competition are being demanded divestment and downsizing . as a result , large transnational institutions are being lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for fiscal bailouts should that supervisory and regulatory fail ) .
and , indeed , with that exchange of rhetorical fire unfolded , america was reportedly preparing revised military options for striking north korea . even more ominous , according to a confidential american intelligence report , north korea has achieved the capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads and may have as many as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken . north korea immediately did just that , threatening to perform an “ enveloping ” strike on america ’s territory of guam . trump has fired back that america ’s army is “ locked and laden . ”
but do n’t hold your breath waiting on any deal . two conclusions can be drawn from all of this . the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others in view of the public goods that society provides . this calls for more modesty and restraint in setting highest pay , rather than moral reasons but a system of sustainability . the other conclusion is that the most privileged classes that benefited the most from everybody 's solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter contributions .
they understood that unemployment would rise if a country ’s monetary policy were to be set by a central bank that has focused single-mindedly on inflation ( as well as inadequate attention to financial stability ) . the economy would suffer because the economic model that underlying the eurozone was predicated on the power relationships which disadvantaged working people . and , sure enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone ’s institutionalized those relationships are the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . after all , it is extraordinarily inconvenient to have in greece a government that is so opposed to the kinds of policies that did so much to increase inequality in so many advanced countries and that is so committed to curbing unbridled power . when sweden , the swedes , too , said “ no . ”
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics faced massive setbacks in two large predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood , mohamed morsi , became egypt ’s first elected president , with millions of egyptians taking to the street , triggering a military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political ineptitude and lack of vision in the face of economic collapse would have been enough to undercut support for his government . but his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his effort to centralize power in the hands of the brothers – and in place himself beyond the revision of egypt ’s judicial system – has proved his undoing . but it is far too soon to write political islam off as an able participant – even a leading power – in a pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a group of korean researchers , published in journal science , the results of research that for the first time in an isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored for the dna of male and female patients of different age . the next day , the british researchers at newcastle university announced that they had been successful in producing a cloned human embryo , using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in cell research . embryonic stem cells are “ pluripotent , ” meaning that they have the potential to evolve into any type of human tissues . that carries great promise , especially for sufferers of spinal cord injuries and illnesses .
this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program by upping the threshold beyond which firms must pay and eliminating exemptions from permits for companies or industries . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability , with additional revenue could equal 2 % of gdp ; they would also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . finally , china can lower government spending ( in the medium term ) by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of the world ’s largest companies have been tapping new technologies to reduce worker layers , from top executives to factory workers , thereby reducing costs and enhancing efficiency . china ’s government , on the other hand , has retained the same six-layer administrative structure , beginning with the central government and moving down through the provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages since the people ’s founding 70 years ago .
nuclear deterrence , the threat of killing hundreds of thousands or millions of human beings , involves a concept that does not fit into its traditional morals . indeed , the risks of a world free of nuclear weapons , or merely a minimal number of it , are tremendous . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and cautious . when one pole of nuclear deterrence has weakened as a result of russia ’s policy decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , the defensive union of liberal democratic and peaceful states committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has restored its capability , such a move would have been unthinkable .
as the tragedy unfolded , however , researchers gained greater insight into the disease . the prion gene provides for an infected individual , in which it resides in an extremely innocuous state . an infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of prion replication . prions seem to defy every conventional wisdom , survivors of pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for about four individual hours , treatments that are routinely and reliably used to de-activate all known viruses and bacteria . furthermore , the prions lack their own genes ; the prions , for example , lack any genes .
the same thing , they fear , will happen in europe as well . but america ’s experience shows that reaching artistic leaders like orchestra ’s music directors to participate in fundraising need not be a bad thing to the artistic side of work . performing arts advocates in europe point to an american where , among other things , the music directors of even major orchestras are expected to participate fully in fundraising activities , and are active in a local community on the orchestras behalf . some conductors , rather than wanting to carry a tin cup as their batons , dismiss important posts in the us for precisely that reason , feeling that it would interfere with their arts . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because it objected to the fundraising requests it made .
at the same time , the council could declare that any kind of fresh aggression , or that any use , threat , or transfer of wmd sites , would unleash saddam ’s removal and his persecution as an international criminal like slobodan milosevic . the council is even more likely to accept the option of mounting a punitive program on air strikes – going well beyond what was accomplished in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the us republican guard , and other armed-force targets . this would hurt and weaken saddam , establishing unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . it would be strange to uphold the council ’s authority through means that have failed to obtain its approval . we should not forswear that option , but we want to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically , if not legitimate – might never support an invasion .
soon thereafter , the inspectors returned to tarmiya . this time , the dr. ahmed , the iraqi counterpart of the us , realized that the game was up . some of the inspectors that he knew well-had dined with them on collegial terms during visits to vienna . this time , they were aware of exactly what the gigantic magnets were to be for : produce weapons-grade nuclear materials . that would lie to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to their cronies on their inspection team .
china , after all , is now one of the world ’s most unequal countries . but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths about the impact on its economic growth . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would increase sharply , and then decline , in the inverted “ u ” pattern , as countries undergoing economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes that assertion more powerfully than any other .
pakistan had held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold another in late 2012 or early 2013 . had the us supreme court not removed gilani , he would have been the first prime minister ever to complete his full term . pakistan thus has taken one more step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . of course , democracy is always to mean more than periodically holding free and fair elections . it also must mean developing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and granting citizens institutional resources to settle disputes .
by contrast , according to the cuban government , the cuban government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalize demands for a society-wide dialogue . that , 20 years after that epochal event an iron curtain around cuba , makes this anniversary poignant . but , regardless of this ignorance and its own economic interests , the eu should insist on freeing up political prisoners and using all international institutions to generate pressure for cuba to respect the human and civil rights of cuba ’s people . this year , european human-rights peoples marks the 20th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe in two . to be sure , the tourists who crowd cuba ’s beaches lack that iron curtain .
some have said that the uprising in burma is over . brigadier general kyaw hsan , the army ’s deputy , recently told un special envoy ibrahim , gambari , that marchers in the streets were “ magnificent monks . ” but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country . that is what the junta wants the world to think for the time being . but we are genuine , with a thousand of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – showing for peace .
yet , while morality has always been at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we had now taken for granted have never occurred to it . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibilities of a moral reformer . today , by contrast , even the emphatically non-philosophical – say , plato had in mind that a “ media exiling ” could easily explain why slavery is bad : “ a person is a person . ” but plato would probably have been most amazed when he embraced moral progress worldwide . for example , although plato opposed “ enslavement ” greeks ’ enslavement , he – like any other , ancient greek – cobbed about enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level societal divisions that have emerged as a result of the conflict , particularly in hubs of violence . such efforts must encourage progress on another front : rural development , which is the only economic issue addressed in the peace agreement . that is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities characteristic of rural colombia has gave farc first-rank rise , with conflict concentrated in such areas . here , local and international civil-society organizations , along with both regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activity where the farc has had a stake may also be seen as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , a security issue . )
looking ahead , glattbrug , rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , makes headlines globally . more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are “ neets ” for men , not work , education , or vocational training . the youth unemployment rate is above 25 % in 13 european countries , headed to about 30 % in italy , ireland , cyprus , latvia , hungary , and slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , more than 30 % of jobseekers under 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their job chances of job seekers remain low . roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are unemployed .
indeed , if norms about domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps most firms within the us would be guilty of dumping . but america 's supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to find themselves guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . the us trade negotiators are not even discussing eliminating this dual standard . so developing countries worry that efforts to introduce us-style `` competition '' within trade negotiations will simply make their lives more difficult . foreign manufacturers are accused of unfair competition far more easily than domestic producers .
facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . but libra ’s benefits appear as slippery as a pisces . for emerging economies , this would mean being cured of dollarization solely to catch an even worse case of libraization . should that happen , then libra will be complicated those countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger a period of slow growth and financial instability . the libra project is dangerous like switzerland and will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer .
for example , rising inequality tends to be less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in an high-growth eu ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than a low-speed – or no-growth environment , where incomes and opportunity levels of the population are either stagnant or decline . the immediate cause of the protests was a new fuel tax . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . the added cost was not all that large ( about $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel-price prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( about $ 7 per gallon , including existing tax rates ) . there is no reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of good growth patterns only in the developing world , though special dynamics depend on several factors .
from alexander the great to stalin ’s brutal mass protests in kyiv , variants of that strategy have been used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the kaiser . we are now seeing this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over land treated as “ disappeared ” when the ussr collapsed in 1991 . in so overplays his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , however , putin has made clear to the world for his neo-imperialist designs . to divide the people in order to conquer them is the immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , putin has said that he can work with whatever government ukraine chooses .
skinner interprets this narrowly focused on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . what it fails to acknowledge is that america , too , is forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable fiscal deficit . america is persistently running both its fiscal deficit – with total spending ( defense totaling 14.8 % in 2017 ) far exceeding its disposable income and a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt to the rest of the world , currently at around 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years . in any case , the active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden burden-sharing .
consider , for example , how recent innovations threaten the export-oriented industrialization strategy that fueled so many developing countries ’ development over the last few decades . by investing in additive manufacturing , ” ” robots , and other nonhuman tools , companies could move their manufacturing sites closer to their end-markets . by using plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries were able to increase their share of global manufacturing activity , creating jobs , attracting investment , and , to some extent , spurring broader industrialization ’s process . but , for firms seizing the opportunity to lower costs by shifting production to the developing world , a trade-off has always been a trade-off : offshore production implies a limited capacity for responding quickly to shifting consumer demand . now technology might offer the option of using it .
even wives of men watching the game at home have had other issues to grapple with . joyce , my former dutch workmate , , has a husband who is diehard manchester united fan . she has changed her furniture , at least twice since she married a child four years ago . couches are bee-stained and kicked as swindlers lose their favorite teams . every season , he breaks at least one piece of furniture , when his entire team loses .
the idea that a murderous monster might symbolize a protester or an outcast , and that therefore deserves sympathy , reached out to french philosophers gilles bruze and pierfélix guattari . increasingly , such protagonists became the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of the irrational violence and hatred of the latter ’s possibly ethnic or religious minorities , who were demonized and victimized , peruze and guattari prolonged the notion of otherness to tinker in . that set the stage for paradigmatic a shift to understanding homicidal monsters like the latter . in fact , has a “ monster ” yet to be perceived as a potential conveyor of revolutionary ideas ?
copenhagen – debates about global warming are marked by the increasing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of the democratic debate . but shutting down discussion simply means the disappearance of reason from public policy . in march , al gore ’s own science advisor and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , proclaimed that , when it comes to tackling global warming , a “ democratic process is n’t working . ” while science has shown that co2 from fossil-fuel sources is heating up the planet , policymakers have been reluctant to follow through on its advice and stop the construction of coal-fired power plants . hansen argues that “ the first action people should take is to benefit the democratic process . ”
the campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government funding to the parties that meet the quota , reducing the amount for parties that do not . and , while south korea has slipped to its 80th place in the ipu ’s list rankings , the decline reflects subsequent growth in the share of female legislators across the rest of the country . the primary reason for the rise of female mps has been the introduction of a quota system , according to which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female . the campaign-finance law has been revised to provide additional government funding to parties that meet the quota , and that lower the volume for parties that do not . and yet , while south korea has slipped to its 80th place on the ipu ’s most-recent rankings , the decline reflects subsequent growth in the share of female legislators across other major countries .
moreover , state powers ought to be reasonably exercised , in good faith , and the purposes it has given to them , with an independent judiciary and judiciary reviewing legislation ensuring that government does not exceed the limits of its authority . the us courts and other formal adjudicative bodies should provide fair procedures . the courts and other formal adjudicative bodies should operate in a fair manner . the law should be equality before the law , combined with adequate protection of fundamental human rights . for bingham , the law must be accessible and – insofar as possible – intelligible , clear , and predictable .
it is the extreme right that has benefited most from centrists ’ failure . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without her backing , a minority liberal government would crumble . in france , the national front that finished second in the 2002 presidential election has revitalized home to marine le pen . in finland , a heretofore unknown true finnish party capitalized on resentment against the eurozone bailouts to conclude a close third in april ’s general election . and , at the same time , france is not an enfeebler attack on the eurozone ’s core members .
the fourth factor , of course , is german business interests . german firms make a lot of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which collectively amount to germany ’s largest trading partner . yet , here , the hungarian tail is wagning the german dog . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner , in terms of both exports and imports . the eu is paying for turkey in euros , while seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating policies no german politician should .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its major trading partners as the eu decided to include in its carbon-dioxide emission-control scheme all flights to and out of its territory , including transcontinental flights . ceos of aircraft manufacturer airbus and the major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in . for their part , china and the united states are sharply outraged . chinese airlines have delayed ordering their purchases of european aircraft as a way . airlines will need to acquire the emission permits of their take-home co2 emissions .
when we in government looked closely at the risks to london as a financial center from being outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that one could damage the us . but we were never in any doubt that being out of europe was an entirely different matter . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore centers on europe ’s periphery , free from europe ’s responsibilities but participating fully in its opportunities . and , for the record to be precise , norway is an important net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its negotiations , despite not being a member . yes , a multilingual arrangements might be negotiated , but every one must be individually negotiated .
policymakers are accountable , first and foremost , to their constituents whose unique needs they must meet . estimates of local disease burden will be vital to combating afflictions like ebola , checking the rising toll of community non-communicable diseases ( ncds ) , and to convene sustainable development goals relating to maternal and infant health in sub-saharan africa . it has also highlighted the rapidly accelerating pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries , as well as the persistent persistence of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional disorders in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health , should it provide more blure-control over data breakdowns . in order to help decision-makers make better use of their own data , the institute for medical metrics , and its evaluation , which i head , generates geospatial maps of resolution .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain will have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices will still need to rise to 20 % relative to the eurozone average . from that perspective , resolving the crisis countries would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they remain in a monetary union comprising competitive countries . an exit from the euro would be the only way they could avoid leaving the euro and devalue their new currencies . to be sure , if germany were to abandon the common currency , the path back toward competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , because the rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as those of the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone . spain , for example , would still need to bring down its national prices by 22-24 % relative to the new eurozone average .
such training , combined with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braying turbulent sea , would make for a highly effective reserve force , to be deployed when disasters strikes . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is fair to strongly condemned such communities to prolonged fisheries ’ dependence . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has totally shut down everyday activities in some coastal areas , causing severe economic ( and not to mention emotional ) distress for the region as impoverished fishing communities . one way to boost india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to create the marine equivalents of our territorial army , the training selected fisherfolk in how to conduct search-and-rescue operations . another topic that risks being overlooked by focusing on urgent and immediate financial entanglements is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs .
ramallah – the united states should stop pushing for the resumption of the palestinian-israeli peace process . peace between the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through the negotiations . doing so may prove to be the best path to peace – a paradox that reflects the widening divide between the peace process and the achievement of a genuine peace process . make no mistake : this is neither an invitation to arms nor an appeal to the violent uprising . but if one side is more interested in a process than in the need for a peace deal , something is bound to be misguided .
the treaties of maastricht ( in 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu , and laid the foundations for political institutions equal to europe as a whole . the treaty of nice ( 2000 ) was the result of a rather wretched of compromise . pronouncements by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union to have had a lasting six year-and-a-half presidency by early in 2007 , are unambiguous : the period of reflection , endorsed by the european commission in 2005 , has concluded . both world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as a project of peace , the defense of the west ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 , and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historic divisions , now required a redefinition of the european project .
yet another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . part of the explanation for this has been increased official control ; part is declining public concern ; and part is that russia ’s problems nowadays are simply becoming less urgent . the most recent fad is for officials to prosecute libel newspapers , demanding more than $ 1 million . whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new shops and buildings . after the government seized its influence over independent tv networks , ntv , and tareed tv6 , russia ’s media became vastly duller .
one need not be an economist to grasp that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on the proportion of the population that does productive work in higher-value jobs . a short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their people the kind of work that pay decent enough wages to sustain healthy , happy lives . true , the united states is not denmark itself . according to oecd country rankings of employment , the top seven countries worldwide have welfare economies . but it ’s not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare state so successful and which americans could learn from them .
berkeley – on my desk right now is columnist timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s mounting inequality crisis and what we can do about it , and milton and rose managing director friedman ’s classic free-choice : personal pronouncements . their case for small-government libertarianism has rested largely on these assertions , and has now largely crumbled because the world , it has turned out , disavored by arguments about how it works . the first claim was that macroeconomic distress results from a government that is n’t an unstable private market ; or , rather , that the forms of macroeconomic regulation called for it to produce economic stability are straightforward and readily achievable . consider them collectively , my overwhelming thought seems to be that the friedmans would find their challenge to justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism far more difficult today than they did before they were in 1979 . back then , friedmans made three powerful factual assertions about how the world works – claims that seemed true , or perhaps true , or perhaps true , or at least arguably true at that time – now looks like
second , the g20 must commit to fighting tax evasion and unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell corporations ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa . according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa is losing more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined tax-avoidance measures , such as base erosion and profit shifting . now , the g20 should follow through on this commitment and establish a clear timeframe for end fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency concerning such spending by 2017 hungary and a ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . g20 members should strengthen tax-free requirements , prevent the creation of shell companies , intensify efforts to combat money laundering , and establish corporate ownership registries .
three of ukraine ’s nuclear-power units currently operate beyond their lifetime design , with nine others set to reach the point of ending their intended lifetime within the next five years . most immediately , the unit two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year extension . the snriu will make this critical choice , without crucial information about the health and environmental risks generated by the red tape presented to ukraine and its neighbors . while this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibilities , as a signatory of the espoo convention , to perform a cross-border environmental impact assessment ( not to mention lacking any opportunity to consider potential alternatives to continue the reactor ’s operation ) , no such analysis is expected to last . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear-power plants until a cross-border assessment takes place .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new urban food-production model . at the business-level level , more than 700 firms with an overall market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate obligations , according to what is said by the us business coalition . as a result , global green bond issuance could hit $ 300 billion this year . and 289 investors , holding almost $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to the $ 100 - $ 3/7 + initiative , a five-year initiative to engage with the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve governance on climate change , curb emissions , and bolster climate-related financial disclosures . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making .
but this has not been a recipe for restoring stability and growth . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . to succeed in restoring a powerful growth path , east asia needs to deliver justice for more than individual human-rights abuses . as asian proponents of values have argued , all human rights – civil and political as well as social and economic – are needed to be enhanced . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash .
major uncertainties in life – a destination for one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morality . the virtuous chinese , by contrast , while saving a large share of their income , were initially castigated by western economists for their failure to grasp that their duty to humanity was to spend . a key theoretical point about the shift to a debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of uncertainty as risk . this was the greatest achievement of the theory of mathematical economics , and we were our utmost to it . while guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been a matter of morality , hedging against risk is a pure technical question .
having ruled out a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani would rely on senators ’ willingness to support concrete action . yet , to achieve this approach is inefficient and fragile . as a result , italy – and the european union – are headed toward the kind of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce a parliamentary majority forced another general election next month . a cyprus crisis that threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus out of the eurozone could make governance even more difficult to manage . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with institutional malaise .
but , just a couple of years ago , america ’s auto industry pushed hard for a requirement in a trade deal that would grant it the minimal market share of america ’s exports to south korea . some of the terms that were imposed then have since been loosened . if trump wants to prevent production from moving overseas and encouraging inward investment , we may soon see companies pushed to agree to voluntarily ” for outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements . in the 1980s , for example , america entered such agreements with a foreign car , the microchip , coal-fired power plants , and machine-gun manufacturers . trump is likely to dust off such tools and evolve further .
the paris accord does not victimize america ; on the contrary , america has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order . america ’s population today accounts for just 4.4 % of the world ’s population . and the us ’s per capita emissions are higher than those of any other large country by far . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been several times higher than the world average , that owes to global climate justice , rather than the other way around . according to data from the mckinsey global institute , the us accounted for an astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions between 1850 and 2013 .
and that volatility is another reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise or fall by double digits without triggering a broader economic crash – at least so far . for example , china ’s gdp growth was unaffected ( indeed , its economy grew at almost 10 % ) , when the stock market lost half its value from 2001 to 2005 , or at that rate , when the market then recovered ( only to fall dramatically after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market has been global a laggard , which was until recently as the world ’s best performing economy surged , rising by more than 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : 8.5 % plunge came after markets re-opened in a late-stage monday that followed the largest two-day rise since 2008 . that rise was preceded by a loss of almost a third of market value from mid-june to early july .
the conversation has , once again , taken a turn toward macron . i attempted to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( in equal measure ) , which tends to be heard here as an manifestation of american-style pragmatism , may be among the clearest traces of his doctrinal near the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over ambiguous choices , “ at the same time ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and trembling before the unsolvable and terrifying mystery of double nature – physical and spiritual – mortal and mortal , mortal and resurrected – – of tormented body of christ . yet , very soon , we arrive at a future of anti-semitism in america . one finds that horde of nativists , white supremacists , and the neo-confederates that descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to snap some black and jewish heads .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century americans have invented political populism , with its anti-elitist attitude and inflammatory rhetoric . argentines , giving the global über-populist juan domingo perón , or brazilians , who had brought us getúlio vargas , might beg to differ . still , there can be little disagreement that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . in the twentieth century , jacques chirac and vargas , plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) ; daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile ; and many others engaged in trade protectionism ; ran large budget deficits ; overheated their economies ; allowed the rise of inflation ; and eventually suffered currency crises .
but it was the recent statement by the us congress by secretary of defense robert gates that was particularly shocking to israelis . israel is bound to fight against this emerging new american doctrine , which equating it with iran , or even with india and pakistan , for that matter . at the same time , political contexts matter , israelis would quarrel . what is remarkable is that it has had for so long . he has expressed his understanding of iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons on the grounds that , as he has said , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the winner of the country ’s november presidential election , with 54.1 % of the vote . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara and called on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , obtained 45.9 % of the vote . one day after the result was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , headed by gbagbo ’s close ally , paul yao n’dre , annulled outcomes from seven departments in the north , declaring gbagbo to win the election ’s election with 51 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , has left many ivorians flabbergasted .
fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of tibetan unrest in 1959 , which led to the exile of the dalai lama and his followers . listed by a host of extremely sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than 2008 . moreover , contrary to the past year , when the rush home for the lunar new year celebration was hampered by freak storms , this year millions of migrant laborers have already returned to their rural houses . many will stay there , because the global economic downturn hit china hard , costing china their jobs . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has been taking many pro-active action , even accepting the “ serf liberties day , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to defend its record in tibet of the last 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama ’s representatives .
dealing with the deficit required difficult decisions – from reforming the welfare system and raising the state-retirement age to controlling public-sector pay . success also requires taking bold steps to tear down trade barriers and open the economy toward investment from a fast-growing country like china and india . yet i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by means of writing checks on its own . we need to make responsible choices in order to ensure that we can live within our means , and that is what i am committed to delivering . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition for securing the economy over the long term , but that is not sufficient .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows precisely that . conversely , de-industrialization , and the concentration of growth in informal service activities are a proven recipe for failure , as have been demonstrated by the haunting experiences of most of the developing world of recent decades . second , while pushing the technological frontier is the critical ingredient for growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries are reforming their production and export structures , particularly by shifting resources to higher productivity activities . the key to achieving it is the capacity to diversify domestic production by generating new activities , stronger intra-country economic linkages , and create new homegrown technological opportunities . building the industrial and modern service industries is critical to successful diversification .
it was a diplomatic term conveying the linkage between disparate policy domains ( bargaining , for example , simultaneously on financial and security matters ) . an otet etymology ignores the non-english origins of a term that can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism . today , few do know where ” ” ” ” ” ” originated in the eu . the word used to be earlier , but in a rather different sense . the oxford english-language dictionary gives as the earliest allusion to its current usage of an academic article from 1972 .
without his decisiveness , backed by a very credible show of military strength and skillful diplomacy , iraq ’s military programs would not now be vulnerable to a scrutiny more intense than that applied to any of the world ’s other would-be proliferator these days . with a credible threat of war having been essential to achieving this extraordinary feat . but precisely because it is so exceptional that it is hard to see how implementing those threats by launching warfare weapons can make any sense at all . the best “ serious consequences ” that the un security council warned should make should iraq fail to meet its obligation would be an even sharper effort to destroy its illicit weapons through the continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , rather than offices . if inspections in iraq were exposed as having lied and cheated this would act as a validation of inspections , scarcely justifications for military reprisals .
while their vision of “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ ’ ’ censorship and thus unacceptable behavior by democratic governments , for example , identifying and targeting behaviors that are illegal everywhere . limiting all intrusions would be impossible , but one could start with transnational crime and cyberterrorism . major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls . obviously , historical analogies are very different from nuclear technology , in particular , in which non-governmental actors could exploit it far more easily . clearly , cyber technology has been vastly different from nuclear technology , particularly because non-governmental actors could exploit it far more easily .
alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over their existing debt , forever expanding new loans to service old debt . but , as some chinese policymakers respond , all growth processes involve waste : nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america have created enormous overcapacity and investor losses even as they spurred economic transformation . that , of course , would produce wasted investment . indeed , with banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable businesses , and with the projected system incapable of imposing alternative efficient discipline , china is already awash with apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupy , and with enormous overcapacity in heavy industry . much of this debt is owed within the state system , for example , through state-owned enterprises ( soes ) and state-owned banks , and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , financing operations with either borrowing or cheap money .
moreover , namibia ’s government wisely understood that its plentiful natural resources could easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of many of them . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , resource depletion will leave the country poorer , not the richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians as countries ’ resources can most potential , and are rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that this is the case . transparency is critical to this process , which is why the government ’s robust support of press freedom is so crucial . as president hage geingob has told the us press , the us press often says otherwise that it does not .
the good news is that cyprus , with its newly elected president , nick anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . nevertheless , a cautious looking beyond the current turbulence – and into anastasiades of history – provides grounds for hope . simply put , much will depend on how it fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . what is not unimaginable is that this kind of cooperation could be extended to include other neighbors around the levant . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) ( the democratic rally ) , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this will naturally be his top priority .
but the bottom line is that at a time when everyone is asked ? italy is not a structure conducive to political coups de theodor , with most of the labour commission ’s relentless grind to eu regulation and re-regulation . for reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule of thumb that commission presidents have to be drawn out over by past governments or current prime ministers . but the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asked ? surely , the commission ’s own internal cause-and-red culture is the constraint that no one in brussels so much enjoys talking about .
but it is not clear that the uk provides such security , especially now that it is on the path to leaving the eu through its single market and customs union . a independence would allow scotland to develop policies beyond those of other successful small economies , not least by keeping eu membership in check . britain chose to leave the eu , because it had an outsized view of itself . but it would soon have to follow a rather small-country model like that of switzerland or norway . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to it .
and , with china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and shadow-banking system attracting increased attention , many companies are becoming anxious . third , while companies recognize that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they , too , are humbled by their increasingly winner-take-all nature . as a result , many companies are less persuaded that “ conventional ” high-tech yields large payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did before . successful innovations today means a lot less about funding , and much more about finding the “ killer app ” . second , with china such an influential driver of global demand ( directly and indirectly , through relevant network effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has a disproportionate impact on projections of global corporate income .
stockholm – it has been just one year since the failed suez coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future continue to abound . had the coup not been stymied within the first month of 48 hours , turkey would have likely descend into a devastating and violent civil war , consequences that would have spread well beyond its borders . yet the thuggery failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters and sealed the coup ’s fate . in fact , the last year ’s attempted coup has been anything , if not a dramatic one . mutinous f-16 fighter jets have bombed the turkish parliament , with 249 people losing their lives .
seoul – once again , tensions are rising across asia over north korea ’s missile programs . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its rocket , but what will happen the afterward . but , instead of hot-button rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the military ’s implications of the missile launch . in contrast to its earlier “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s government this time announced by the international organization ahead that it would launch a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and june 8 . both the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly denounced the launching as a “ provocative act ” and a violation of the united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 – five days after north korea conducted its nuclear-weapons tests .
in the event , neither russia ’s closest ally would agree to recognize those occupied territories or legitimize its invasion . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome . it has been ten years since the eu initiated its eastern partnership , which established a more reliable framework for cooperative cooperation in the bloc with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgian georgian georgian governments , moldova , and ukraine . that initiative is worth considering , in part , being a response to the georgian invasion of georgia preceding summer , when the kremlin tried to dismember countries by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . and it has just held the first round of a presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of liberty and fairness .
the brexit referendum will point the way , both to the uk and the eu as a whole . it will follow either the sighs of relief ( as i hope ) , or the cataclysm that rocks the eu to its fundamentals and brings catastrophe in the uk . but the bri will have to address europe ’s many crises . without a revived vision of europe and an effective approach to resolving crises , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will have continued to live up to their vigor and endanger the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . the policy of a baby step in the direction of a baby step is no longer sufficient .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can return to its core business of managing crises . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands filled with three significant challenges . the first , and probably easiest , challenge concerns restoring the imf ’s domestic public image . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn for sexual-assault charges now seems highly precarious , the ensuing press ’s focus on the imf suggests an unchecked international bureaucracy with unrestricted balance accounts dominated by men with little sense of restraint .
this eventual need to reduce the monetary base is an implicit claim on a central bank ’s assets ; as a result , the increase is rightly seen as an liability on its balance sheet . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free credit to governments ; it ’s a gift . the rise of the monetary base , however , is only temporary ; when bonds are redeemed , it reverts to its previous level . under a fiscally financed fiscal stimulus ; by contrast , the central bank never needs to reverse the rise of the monetary base . because the holders of a distributed fund have no claim on a central bank , an increase in the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but as an increase in a central bank ’s net worth .
her party accused the serra of orchestrating the attack , and in retaliation , her party – the liberal front – thrown its support on ciro gomes . with sarney off , lula reigned supreme in the polls , rising to 43 % in mid-may . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters – during which the country ’s risk-index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and brief credits for international trade dry – started to change the face of the election . gomes used the tv time it had reached to his own three-party labor alliance in late june to great effect , but much of the credit that it raises in polls to the excellent performance of his second wife , popular actress patricia pillar , who had been recovering from breast cancer . then , in early july , gomes skyrocketed to 28 % , within a striking margin of lula , who had declined to 33 % .
claremont , california – though a rapid escalation of violence in hong kong seems terrifying enough , things might be on the way to get a far worse path . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the chinese communist party ’s 19th national committee ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping intends to tighten his grip on the country ’s former colony at all costs . he should brace himself to renew a formidable bill . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , regional tensions – which included the escalating political instability in algeria , and the thorny issue of western sahara – have hampered integration in the maghreb , an absolute necessity to unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has governed a vocal champion of counter-extremism initiatives , including a responsible religious education far beyond its own borders . it has become a global green-energy leader , committed paris-in 2015 , in order to increase its ratio of renewable-energy generation to just 52 % by 2030 , one of the world ’s most ambitious targets . these shortcomings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , despite important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional changes that shifted powers from monarch to parliament , as well as legal reforms like aligning laws with european and international human-rights norms , as well as progress on family law and gender equality .
after all , there is little reason to believe that a fiscal compact or proposed “ debt brake ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . to use eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate major sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it is offering up to only on the 60 % – of-gdp margin in which countries will have the hardest difficulties resisting the temptation . misplaced hope that the enforcement problem can be solved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions might be based on a blanket misunderstanding of america ’s system . to be sure , america ’s federal government has never shied away from nation-states , including 49 of which ( all but vermont ) had laws or a constitutional provision limiting deficit spending . rules need a credible enforcement mechanism .
but , with the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) set to enter force in 1995 , every un member state has to recognize another ’s own pharmaceutical patents . for example , india abides by a stricter definitions of what constitutes an invention that precludes a small handful of ” ” ” : the process of expanding the us patent ’s living by taking out secondary patents for marginal actant . yet , following amendments to indian patents , india still had some safeguards to avoid the kind of excesses that the major pharmaceutical companies routinely acquire with them in the us and europe . in fact , according to section 3 ( d ) of the indian patents act , “ the simple discovery of a new form of … property , or … use of a well-known substance or simply recourse to a previously notorious process ” is ill qualified unless it results in a new product , or employs no more than one new reactant . for indian drug makers , production generic versions about patented drugs would require licenses , and such licenses are rarely if ever awarded .
the foreign actors who criticize brazil for its exploitation of its rain rainforest – from european governments to pope francis – promote biodiversity alone in order to exploit it in the future . but bolsonaro does not want to keep the amazon chaste ; he simply wants to be among those exploiting it . his promotion of the rainforest ’s development and attacks on the environment ’s practices have led , for example , to a surge in agribusiness , especially cattle ranching and even illegal logging . with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like a virgin that no foreign pervert wants . ” according to data from brazil ’s national institute of space-survey research , deforestation of brazil ’s districts increased in june 88 % year on year .
there are , of course , notable differences between north korea and iran . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea , which , unlike iran , withdrew from the nonproliferation treaty – already possesses an estimated 60 nuclear warheads , appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching america ’s land . in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . trump may have begun to recognize that increasing pressure on north korea does not preclude a sitting down to negotiate with kim . kim seems perfectly willing to subject north koreans to the privations of each sort to stay in power .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede us monetary independence . a third argument against imposing anti-manipulation provisions on the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . conventional monetary policy operates by altering short-term interest rates that involve the central bank purchasing power and selling short-term government debt . none of this intervention on the foreign-exchange market , or both purchases of foreign currency , is involved . but this reflects a thorough misunderstanding of what matters .
but a joke might not work if there were n’t another widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge has value independent of any kind of practical use . after all , it would n’t be funny if a charity devoted to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; a practical value in this case is paramount , because it is the only true reason for a charity to exist . so it is amusing to boast that one ’s own brand of thinking , whether experimental physics , math , or cosmology is unnecessary . on this view , the science also has a quite different , increased purpose : understanding the natural world . but a joke might not work if there were not simultaneously another , widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge has value independent of any kind of practical use .
last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization stressed the need to place human rights at the center of the response to the zika outbreak . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration requested $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare and respond to the zika threat . yet abortion politics had intervened , because republican lawmakers , running a congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , had made funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . likewise , the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with excessive responsibilities while entrenching them too little power – are not being lost on everyone . yet the us position has not helped , either .
such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public as well as to the people of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . at long last , it would benefit these countries ’ demographic wealth to meet their developmental needs . it would reverse the pattern on which europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and to guard its borders against migrants . if they become consolidated democracies , as some had hoped , would-be entrepreneurs might then stop worrying so much about official corruption . and start-up loans from europe would make it far easier to seek one fortune back home .
but is this an accurate description of slow-growing countries ? edmund phelps of the university of columbia claims that these slow-growing countries lack “ dynamism , ” which he defines as a combination of entrepreneurial spirit and financial institutions to channel it . both spirit and indispensable financial institutions must be present to enable “ creative destruction ” – the power joseph schumpeter argued that sixty years was an engine of capitalist prosperity – to be brought under way . to be sure , what is advantageous today may be problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will confront severe problems at a time when their demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america today . but this , in turn , is not what the travails of now look like .
lula ’s popularity ignacia da silva and his team led opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election , serving as a warning that much of the latin american public is prepared to reject traditional “ governments . ” lula and his party are so far outside the mainstream of economic thought and policy that capital has already begun to flee , despite the election months away . peru and venezuela barely look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next . institutions are torn down , property rights are being called into question , and hapless corrupt redistribution efforts are under way .
by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa would produce 14kwh per person annually , less than what is required to keep a single two-watt led permanently . few in the rich world would switch to renewables in the absence of heavy subsidies , and certainly nobody can cut off their link to a mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( another form of subsidies ) . still , western activists seem convinced that the world ’s typical people should be satisfied with an inadequate and irregular electricity supply . in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy use will increase by more than 80 % through 2040 ; but , with over 2 % of the continent ’s population nearly doubling , less energy per person will become available . likewise , the iea estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal – or hydro , even with a carbon tax .
much talk came in 2011 and early 2012 about a crash in china ’s housing market , together with the chain-response of defaults on underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms . much talk of a crash in china ’s housing market began in 2011 and the chain-response of defaults on defaults in underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability – under which returns on the shadow-banking system ’s asset pools – is low and declining . where , then , will the extremely high returns on financial products provided by the shadow-banking system come from ? likewise , according to market sources , total assets controlled by the shadow-banking system have been growing exponentially since 2009 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or about one-third of gdp – in the third quarter of 2012 .
the refining and petrochemical sector supplies the eu with a large share of it , as well as a significant source of tax revenues . the downstream sector , together with the fuels proliferation , is contributing an overall share of around € 240 billion ( $ 240 billion ) annually to eu treasury coffers . but , while the sector faces the threat of bloated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home have become the eu ’s abundance and national energy regulations . through no reckoning , this is an important industry that should not be allowed to suffer from over-regulation . in fact , european industries are afflicted by similar problems .
in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches to issues like immigration threaten to create systemic issues that will endure long after trump returned to the lives of a specific golf courses and bankruptcy courts . the answer , it seems , is that his centrist german chancellor , angela merkel , has been pushing back against trump . sensible european leaders can be forgiven politely for sending the uk to the point where they can turn their attention to the threats to their long-term cohesion and fundamental values . at the same time , the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities and welcomed the poor and downtrodden . yet draining its poison from europe will take matters considerably more than scolding america and praying for trump ’s premature departure .
acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing – and the prevailing political mood certainly seems to reflect this . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then the pre-crisis economic theory , rational expectations , efficient markets , and monetary neutrality , needs to be revised . moreover , policymakers need to rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected in market-fundamentalist assumptions . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing – and the prevailing political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may actually be empowering , because it implies a distinct possibility for improvements in both economics and politics . if the world becomes too complicated and unpredictable for either market or government to achieve our social goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed in a way that enables political decision-making to constrain economic incentives and vice .
likewise , it would be difficult but not impossible to reduce the incentive structures created by almost every country ’s tax regimes for corporate leverage . nor can austerity alone suffice , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments at a rate of 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case – which is likely to resist them , as the greeks have done . a more efficient approach would employ a broader set of tools , including debt restructuring . at the same time , governments must work to reduce the – and deficient – global demand to which it contributes . it is simply not feasible for highly leveraged governments to grow their way out of debt .
much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the depths of the financial crisis . tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors that they want to change the world , but many are becoming intoxicated with the idea that the world will be better off selling their trades to the highest bidder . and others are more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to a job . yet ceos of silicon valley are not robin hoods either . third , inequitable pay and incentivizing structures are bad for business .
likewise , khan ’s position in supporting gay marriage made him the fatwa for apostasy by the fearsome head imam of the “ bradford mosque . ” one might say that no less could have been expected from a labor leader with a bright future in churchill ’s own country . but one still has to follow through , admitting that khan did not yielded on these issues to facile communitarianism common on the other side of the conduit . for europeans , this is a necessary principle . moreover , he never wavered on critical questions of legal and practicality for women , or expressing his dismay at the increasing number of niqabs and hijabs now seen on london ’s streets that prevent men , counseling , face to countenance .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second-payment services directive ( psd2 ) was decisive in opening up the banking system ; and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have for some time run regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants by helping them to structure standards to comply with standards . aggregators may then present a customer with an integrated view of their finances and offering add-on services . perhaps the time to assess the financial-stability risks of open-banking activities was in the consultation period before the directive was passed . even now , the list of fsb ’s contributors to the fsb work reveals that neither had been involved in the european commission nor core regulators in europe and north america . psd2 , often described in the “ open banking ” game , requires banks to offer their customers ’ data to non-bank providers of payment and unit account services .
a classical economist would argue that , given this , a country should export timber , which finland has done . but all wood-related goods comprise barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . some ideas are rather worse than mistaken : they are caucasus , because they interpret the world in terms of emphasizing secondary issues , say , the availability of raw materials , and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that might lie elsewhere . consider finland , a nordic country has endowed with many trees for its small population . by contrast , a traditional development economist would argue that it should not export timber ; the eu should add value by converting a wood in paper or a furniture – something finland , too .
we need to reach out to around 50 grams per kilowatt-hour by 2050 rather than to 500 grams per kilowatt-hour . this more profound transformation , in contrast to the low-hanging fruit that many policymakers have today , offers the only route to addressing climate safety ( that is , staying below 2ºc limit ) . by pursuing coal-powered vehicles or more efficient carbon-burning vehicles , we risk falling into a high-carbon trap . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged by a zero-carbon electricity grid . we need to reach zero-emission vehicles , not more efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century .
the productive transformation required by developing countries is far easier to achieve with support than obstruction , of their conglomerates . rather than becoming agents of change , they often avoid making change . ( indeed , the grand economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by preventing their start-up competitors from challenging them . ) in order to succeed , the conglomerates need the support of the government and the acceptance of a society . but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even unilever ) conglomerates toward export industries , which may grow beyond gdp , with industries in which competition creates incentives for discipline , which they lack , owing to dominated local markets .
how will it define its own interests in those countries ? working groups might be created to attempt to build a shared narrative . what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? does it really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of shia arabs ? negotiation would also have to cover contemporary issues , including tour d’horizon of current hotspots .
given that china will be the leading global market for the future , it will be decisive in determining not just what the us produce and consume , but how . domestically , china will be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and demanding gdp growth , are forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . otherwise , china would rapidly reach its own “ limits on growth , ” ” with catastrophic ecological and geopolitical consequences . consider the transition from a conventional automobile to a electric transportation sector . despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in china , rather than the west .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must articulate its clear intention of reducing sovereign-interest-rate hikes to sustainable levels that are at least 200 basis points below its july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rates recently , on the grounds that spain had borrowed at almost equal rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement , curiously , ignores spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation – thus bewildering real and nominal rates as well as more rapid gdp growth . for countries that follow agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to channeling down interest rates toward levels that are compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , and that announce how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue . a sporadic program without such announced targets is unlikely to work , and might even be counterproductive , because private investors might be well demanding even higher returns , because the ecb ’s share of gdp would be deemed senior , augmenting its risk .
inflation targeting was at best known as the rule that instructed central banks to set – trying their best to attain – a target range on the annual rate of forward consumer price indices ( cpi ) . but some have felt that by defining it too far , it will have lost its significance . there have also been proponents of the flexibility of inflation targeting , holding that it was fine to place some weight on short-run real gdp growth – so long as there was a clear , longer-term goal of cpi inflation . but that rule succumbed rather quickly into violent money-demand shocks , though friedman ’s generic argument – that a credible “ inflation-targeting ” commitment requires favoring regulations over discretionary discretion – remains extremely influential . the close of his cousins included the upward targeting of the price level within the eu , and the targeting of core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) .
in the us , for example , slashing labor costs sharply lower the share of labor income in gdp . the result is that free markets do not generate enough to offset demand . firms in advanced economies cut jobs today , owing to insufficient final demand , resulting in excess capacity , as well as greater uncertainty about future demand . but cutting jobs weakens the final demand further , because it reduces labor ’s income and exacerbates inequality . because a firm ’s labor cost is someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a single firm is a aggregate destructive .
meanwhile , employment at the amazon grew by more than 47 % over the previous year , to more than 341,000 . but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of such jobs is very different from that measured by those it replaces . after all , whereas the taa targets individuals according to official impacted directly by foreign competition , much of the competition that local economies face is not coming from abroad ; and many jobs are lost , not in industries that directly affected by outside competition , but in the surrounding economies . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , the taa is not an option for such ailment . nor are tariff tariffs helping those left unemployed by blockbuster video , border books , the compusa , circuit cities , payless or virgin megastores .
moreover , if ukraine ’s president become an international pariah , he can turn only against russia , as is the case with president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . president putin ’s behavior is probably the best explanation for him ’s dislike of democracy . following this spectacular russian default , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic and faces the threat of a true democracy within his russian-propagation neighbor spread to russia . for the first time ever , ukrainians had thrown their little-brother ’s complicated toward russia ’s overruling . yanukovych stands to benefit from the truly oligarchic state of the sort that putin has defeated at home , with yanukovych accusing yushchenko of selling ukrainian firms to russian corporations .
with africa ’s rural population already predominantly underemployed , there is no time to waste in pursuing such strategies . of course , it is possible that farming development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls , which must be navigated carefully . for example , as the technology-driven productivity gains diminishes the number of farm workers needed , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and to manage migration to cities , for example , have become even more vital . fortunately , africa ’s huge working-age young people , who are overwhelmingly uninterested in the hindus being gripped by subsistence farming , are well suited to fill the higher-value-added jobs that emerge in and out of the agricultural sector . another potential pickup in agricultural development is environmental damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excess water use , and air pollution .
such critics worry that doing so will make it harder to persuade countries to cut emissions further when it becomes obvious that their collective efforts are insufficient and may even enable some countries to deploy irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks lima ’s major accomplishment : it ends the world ’s longstanding division into just two kinds of countries , developed and developing . for many of the arrangement ’s critics , particularly those within the environmental movement , those compromises essentially put the lima deal on excessively “ bottom-up ” terms . countries have far latitude to make whatever commitments they wish for , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ intensive ” rules imposed by treaty . that , almost certainly , will not .
ahn ’s most visible merits are his own personal history of overcoming severe challenges and those of his modest demeanor . on his own , her refusal to strike back on her own is probably a major reason why she continues to lead various opinion polls . but recent polls show that an overwhelming majority of voters are distrust between the incumbent government and the ruling party . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul ’s national university and that of the university of columbia university , has now rocked south korea ’s policy by running wide suggestion that he might become a presidential candidate . already , ahn has become a lightning rod for every ukrainian counterpart or anti-president lee myun-haun-ha-tempered force , attracting young people on a par with him .
can we determine the economic value of protecting our natural world ? some people will balk at an idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would doubtless also agree that precludes human death and misery , while providing food , water , and education to all is vitally important . the reality is that there are simply not enough resources that can do everything . dhaka – we humans do not just share a planet with a multitude of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we also depend on them for our own survival .
while the response will certainly have to be tailor-made for individual countries in specific circumstances , some recommendations might have been helpful to most countries : · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of accelerating growth in case of downside risks . and , elsewhere in the region , small pacific islands , especially – vulnerability to the consequences of climate change – intensify . indeed , in many emerging markets and developing countries , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transport . this shifting landscape calls for bold action on several fronts .
it wants to remain asia ’s like-minded sole country with a permanent seat , a stance that places it at odds with india . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship any brics country has is with the united states . the brics ’ concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ appetite for making the global order more plural . if the brics countries are to reconvene as a push group in international relations , they will need to agree on what they believe is attainable political and economic objectives . they are universally united , for example , in their frustrations with – but not in their proposed reaction to – the us dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currencies .
i then focused on the responsibility of the internet and gps gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following sequence of events : first and foremost , the almost infinite level of speech is set by digital democracy . and , third , there has been “ deconstructionism ” ” ” ” ” by the post-nietzscheans . by historicizing the “ willingness to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , place truth “ at the quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) separating a sign from his or her referent ( louis althusser ) and miring the apparent in a miasma about charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it down at borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , probably caused the us to lose contact with easy contact , and irreversible aspects of the planet . the web then becomes a mob , a free-for-all showing up armed with one ’s or her personal opinions , convictions , and truth .
but a damna report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program released shortly before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro brought it to the forefront of the public consciousness . we should seize this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice – and to save elite sports . reaching the elite level in sports will require exceptional levels of hard work , dedication , and responsiveness . by definition , few succeed , but those who do might enjoy great personal and financial rewards . solna , sweden , – elite sports and doping have long been deep-rooted .
berlin – with mosul ’s retaking in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon become a thing of the past . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not deliver peace to the middle east or , at long last , the end of the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in world war i. when it comes to world war i. when the world has ruled , it remains mired somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries . pursuing this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains incapable of resolving internal conflicts on its own or creating anything like a resilient framework for peacemaking .
why are we prone to underinvesting in our economies ’ resilience ? one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times with a cost-benefit calculation ruling out higher investment . that seems plainly wrong : numerous expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically to low probabilities into disruptive events . even swift responses are more effective when key grids and systems – particularly the electricity grid – become resilient . that result in a second and more plausible explanation , which is psychological and behavioral in character .
right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank of india raised its forward short-term interest rate to 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation ; and the people ’s central bank now indicates that it might start raising interest rates further . in brazil , real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remain near 11 % . in october , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , responding to the twin threats of higher inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates to within 25 basis points , to 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively , respectively , the initial increase from 2007 . across the west , concerns about the impact on chinese growth triggered a fearful sell-off in the markets . meanwhile , developing countries are edging in the opposite direction .
the larger firms are more capable of pooling sources of research and development , which is the key to china ’s aspirations to ascend the value ladder . the us and china ’s less fragmented industries also lobby better . traditionally , contracts manufacturers in china are dispersed and fiercely competitive . they have little to say over domestic and international regulations . manufacturers in jiangsu , for example , have been pressed to adjust steadily through fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets .
this may once have been true of china ; it is no longer true today . but the literature on “ exit ” strategies ” ” – on how to replace the currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate – makes clear that the moment when china could navigate that transition smoothly went through today . no question , the country would be better off with a more flexible exchange rate that removed one-way bets on market speculators and acted as an economic shock absorber . countries can exit a pegged rate smoothly only when confidence in an economy is at stake , reinforcing the belief that a more flexible exchange rate could appreciate just as they weaken . this puts chinese policymakers in an iranian tourist position who asks for direction to dublin , and it is told , fine , sir if i were you – n’t starting from now .
a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force government-insured banks back to their core lending mission ) might work . but the american government would be remiss to abandon things as they are . in fact , there are many ways to curb the excesses of large banks . the us senate bill providing on derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing these constraints , apparently lined up against large banks . the legislation was not intended to ban derivatives , but simply to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized by taxpayers ( remember aig ’s $ 180 billion bailout ? ) , which is not a natural or inevitable byproduct of lending .
sadly , a recent political incident involving american ngos ’ democracy-promotion activities has cooled bilateral relationships , threatening the $ 1.3 trillion in military assistance that egypt receives annually from the united states . egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . if the aids arrives , egypt could start addressing some of its financing problems , but it still needs a longer-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . if finalized , the imf program could trigger additional assistance packages by the world bank and other international donors . if the aids arrives , egypt could start confronting some of its financing problems , but it still needs a longer-term strategy to spur sustainable growth .
being physically present at work means a direct contact with other sharp and creative minds . of course , those favored to work at home cite not just the cost and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – an excessively wide culture , perhaps as well as a steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their labor rather than enhancing it . interestingly , i heard this point at the wpp stream “ wo n't conference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people each fled thousands of miles to meet faced to need into sharing ideas and strengthening working relations . cafeteria ( he is now more often called and more frequented with free-food advent ) or the halls of plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . and the benefit of human contact and interaction is why salespeople have still called , rather than using skype , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face meetings ; i head the company ’s board ) change lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s choices , it is because what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and the rate at which markets are based are assuming greater weight in such decisions . but the ways in which globalization , on its own , is not in retreat . while global goods have stalled , and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , digital information flows have surged : cross-border use of bandwidth has risen 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation worldwide . in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need for boat goods across long distances . if trade in global goods had indeed peaked relative to global gdp , it would be harder for poorer countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops .
in comparison with standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements and less on multilateral negotiating rounds . clearly , xi and his circle will not want to dismantle the global trading system , let alone encourage them to do so . in 2002 , china signed the wto treaty on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . as xi placed it at davos in 2017 , “ china is committed to a rising , open global economy . ” but , in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ over what we know .
throughout singh ’s congress party , pressure will mount to conform to economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . all politicians in the democracies are thinking in the short run ; few have time horizons that extend beyond the next election . with his 20-year track record of accomplishment to show public , singh has a better case than most to become trusted by voters when he says they act in their own long-term interests . one can justifiably take the credit for what the most far-reaching such a program , the mahatma gandhi national rural employment guarantee act , which assures one member from every poor rural family 100 days of paid employment . part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt the electorate ( through higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas the benefits for foreign investment take years to become apparent .
the alternative is the one urged by both sarkozy and the banque de france : purchases by their respective countries ’ banks ’ government bonds . so , for example , if they use the cash to continue to finance the private sector , they will ensure that the loans go to creditworthy customers . this means that , like the credit given by italy and spanish banks during the past few months , much of the new cash will be loaned locally to safe households and large incumbents . that will enable the bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that european economies now require . the immediate interest of banks is to adjust to new capital requirements and get their balance sheets back on the financial health sector , which implies taking advantage of ecb money in ways that allow them to meet that objective most effectively .
but symbolic measures , while important , are not sufficient to bring about real progress . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its bill and institutions effectively protect the human rights of each of its own citizens . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its bill and institutions will protect effectively the human rights of all of its citizens . in doing so would improve its standing , both in europe and beyond . turkey has a critical role to play in its region and the world , one undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide .
they want to talk to private-sector experts who understand their societies ’ technical and financial needs or sectors . yet , save for costa rica ’s overseas investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of the latin american fdi promotion agency , has succeeded in embracing best practices . furthermore , foreign investors are reluctant to engage with diplomats or civil-servant workers . they are eager to talk to private-sector experts who understand their companies ’ technical and financial needs or sectors . that is why fdi must be promoted individually from domestic investment and exports .
big mining companies can prepare for this shift by moving from fossil fuels to other materials , such as iron-ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , rare earth elements , and lithium , as well as the mineral fertilizers that will be needed in large quantities to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . phasing out coal during periods of latent overproduction may even do a profit . third , the world needs a better means to assess the mining of its ecological risks . with the paris climate agreement a year old , reshaping global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . companies with a vast fossil-fuel portfolio , such as coal , will soon face severe uncertainties related to stranded assets , and investors may shift risk assessment accordingly .
max perutz , the chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work like graduation student with bernal . the following year , he had placed excellent hemoglobin crystals , and soon produced the best x-ray diffraction patterns to date . he also acquired the first x-ray patterns of partly oriented sample samples of dna . but the observable pattern of action -- the intensities and positions of individual reflections -- represents only about half of the data required to break an diffracting structure . in the mathematical terms , this gives amplitude , but not the phases -- i.e. , the stages in an oscillatory motion -- without which atomic positions could not be determined .
the text mostly replicates the structures of convention chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , submitted last november , with the conclusions reached by the convention ’s working group . for the most part , the key word that was made is this : the european union ’s final shape is there . the endgame to determine a definitive shape of the european union is underway . this began with the publication by the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe ( wef ) , the draft ’s first sixteen “ treaty articles ” to establish a constitution for europe . such tenacity did not hold for economics .
driven by population growth and urbanization , demand is outstripping supply . in pakistan , for example , a 2008 census scheduled for a nine years , and beset by problems when it has finally been conducted . in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap covers $ 68-108 billion a year , firms are paying more to do business . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of firms experience electric outages , costing them more than 15 % of annual sales , on average . likewise , while every company needs data on investment and operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always reliable and often skewed in policy agendas .
the bbc media group ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . nor have closures spared leading regional outlets like siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad a top-independent daily newspaper , novye kolesa . each of these under-reports was distinguished by its coverage of sensitive stories , from conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . today , russia has less media freedom and more journalists , media outlets , and bloggers behind bars than anything else since the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , even its most basic media protections are non-existent .
the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s target of limiting the rise in global average temperature to less than 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally at 1.5 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – we need to cut emissions dramatically . meanwhile , today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of businesses worldwide are finally taking action . earlier this month , thousands gathered for the un climate change conference in bonn , germany , ratcheting up global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for more progress and continued collaboration are high . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the carbon pricing coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 companies and strategic partners to lay the groundwork for carbon dioxide emissions .
the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risk . but it could , in principle , take a step in as long as northern europe has permitted it . as soon as greece continues , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy . there is nothing to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their own local bank to one in switzerland , norway , or new york . at that point , the one thing it still stands between the euro and the resulting financial chaos will be the ecb , which could purchase government bonds and fund bank runs .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , as well as in other countries in the region , frequently tout the model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader , lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yes , lee ’s system had enabled him to remain in power for the next 31 years , using civilian rule , not a criminal act of courts to harry his adversaries . but lee , more important , also relied on elements of democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has triumphed over patronage . yet , the path on which both countries have embarked has not been lee out of his way . here , it seems clear that feckless political interests have been permitted to dictate that a country ’s crucial opposition leader should pursue charges that no genuine democracy that embraces the rule of law would even consider leveling , with convicted of evidence that no truly independent judiciary would embrace .
are all his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” ” ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely called them ? trump ’s critics argue that he is playing to disaffected disaffected voters ’ basest voters that hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , mistrust bankers ( or anyone to name a higher-education , for that matter ) , and still can not gain over the election of a president whose father was black . now , again , all of this may be quite so . trump , in the comedian jon stewart ’s words , is “ america like a id , ” ” ” or at least a id of vast numbers of predominantly white , predominantly older , mostly small-town americans . but trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world .
spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and still show no sign of improvement . in europe , too , the picture is mixed . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain in recession , and their gdps will continue to shrink . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , and is projected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for finland , britain and italy , below-average gdp growth rates are expected .
malmö – “ everyone knows ” that you should drink eight watersheds day glasses . healthy living now means carrying bottled water bottlers , sipping at every occasion , trying to drink our everyday quota to ensure that we stay hydrated and unhealthy ones . after all , this is the advice of multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s own national health service . indeed , often we drink without being thirsty , but that is precisely how it should be : as the drink maker gatorade reminds us , “ your own brain might know a lot , but you do n’t know when your own body is thirsty . ” thankfully , drinking this far does n’t feel comfortable , but powerade offers this sage counsel : “ you might be able to train your broadedness to tolerate more fluid if you build your fluid intake gradually .
can the united states continue to afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities requiring long-distance automobile commutes ? will they ever be allowed to emit “ carbon dioxide , ” as happened in the past ? what kinds of coal-fired power plants will be acceptable in the future ? businesses are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is soaring and are facing unprecedented risk penalties on their borrowing costs . they , too , are facing huge uncertainties .
these include independent groups , such as refugees ’ international ( transport ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) . as i argue in germany this week , the g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 has an opportunity to reshape the system of migration governance with proactive protection policies that enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . though past un summits have produced little more than talking points , the outlook for action is better this time , given the widespread perception that the talks are going to be held in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been felt profoundly . weak mandates , poor finance , disorganized structure , and the absence of a global governance system have weakened inter-governmental agencies ’ capacity to operate with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . currently , the alphabet grasp soup of coercion and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge .
by the end of the 1950s , there were roughly the rest of the world ’s computers , and the process of processing power averaged 10,000 machine instructions per second . more than the generation ago intel ’s co ₂ founder gordon moore observed that improvements in its semiconductor fabrication allow a doubling of density of transistors on a chip each eighteen months . there are now 300 million or so computers worldwide ; with power now averaging several hundred million phone instructions per second only to that day ; a four fleet of or more _ fold increase in a raw , automated computational force ; an average annual growth rate of roughly 56 % ! the scale of the investment required to make what is known as moore ’s law hold has grown exponentially alongside the density of transistors and circuits ; but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force ; and engineers see no immediate barriers holding the process of improvement to a halt anytime soon . there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will persist over the next several decades .
by targeting schools as health-care education hubs and shaping students to health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach out to an even larger number of people in xinjiang those nomadic communities . they need to cooperate together to build on the best possible outcomes . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” ” ” ” and right now , the us is on the brink of fresh frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain access to health services . such multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge gaps in developing regions . but neither corporations nor governments can do it alone .
in late 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized the us state department to initiate “ substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . at the end of 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace . and , beginning with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush was mediated by a series of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . fortunately , he still has time , and a number of previous american presidents have set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . now is obama ’s turn , and he should push for a un security council resolution that sets new parameters for a future peace accord , as well as for the replacement of united nations security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six-day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
loughner ’s 2011 shooting of 19 people ’s day , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as did a court-directed evaluation of his mental competency . indeed , on the other side of the world , a newspaper the australian newspaper mentioned giffords 160 times during the six months after firing , compared with just one reference in more than 12 months . likewise , cho ’s history of mental illness was widely discussed . in this manner , america may well export mental-illness to the rest of the world . though mass shootings are exceedingly rare even in the us , us media coverage has continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad .
for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , achieve transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . more important , successful reform in ukraine makes positive developments in russia more plausible . ukraine is a large country with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential across a wide range of sectors . it is a key front in the global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by more than two-thirds ( in the dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it europe ’s poorest country .
rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries would be able to exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe exemplify such dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . at one extreme is the idea that the euro can not function like the dollar , given that the eurozone is not a federalized state . realigning relative prices would require an internal currency devaluation that could lead to social and political instability in weaker countries . but this strategy carries serious risks that , at long last , make it unsound .
economists disagree on when , on what circumstances , and on what order for governments to move beyond these first two items on a checklist . should governments try to boost monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby driving down short-term interest rates ? after all , should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ? should they employ unemployed workers either directly or indirectly , by bringing about forward expenditures or by expanding the scale of government programs ? the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy through standard runs and central-bank guarantees on orderly markets prove insufficient .
the uk ’s ministers chiefly responsible for the talks , a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than to their competences has so far succeeded in securing a deal in one key area : following the deadline of march 2019 , a two-year transition period is about to start . it also includes the promise of leaving the eu to its single market and customs union . but even that deal is not set in stone , because it depends upon whether negotiators can first agree on what to do about the border dispute between the republic of ireland and northern ireland once the uk leaves the customs union . you might be in a customs union with no border or no customs union with a border . there is no example anywhere in the world .
at the same time , the eurozone is highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , a unifying safe-asset , or tools of macroeconomic stabilization . indeed , the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , that mandate probably still should remain centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that its current definition of price stability , “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over a medium term ” , is too narrow . a broader definition is required , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric inflation target of 2 % within a 1.5-2.5 % band over a longer time horizon .
but the us has a wish for a middle east – one that , while perhaps not delivering a peace process – can generate one of peace its preconditions : its goodwill . israel and palestine should collectively bid , and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup . when it comes to wishing for middle eastern peace , virtually a new year ’s tradition of ­ – say , one needs careful attention . that is why a sense of hope that has vanished with a bitter failure in so many negotiations . for a long time , however , the israel-palestine conflict has held for a long time .
in northern iraq , old scores are being blurred , and de facto ethnic segregation is enforced in areas like iran that have traditionally been diverse . in still others , sharia law is the introduction of sharia by force . notwithstanding the courage of many iraqis joining either an army or a police force , no one should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure . so the real question is how to get to the point at which iraq has a police force and a army that can be trusted to uphold law just as they do by order . much ground must be covered to get anywhere near .
given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s is no longer booming . the unemployment rate is hovering at around 10 % ( still less than half the spanish level ) , and annual gdp growth is hovering at roughly 1 % ( spain ’s growth rate is negative ) . to be sure , it would be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland to a decaying spain . but that moods in the two countries , like their perceptions of europe and their role in it , are starkly different . indeed , the differences between the madrid demonstrations and warsaw pact imply that the distinction between old and new europe remains in force , albeit not where rumsfeld ’s meant .
berlin – the decision by the united kingdom to “ brexit ” the european union is no example of british “ black humor ” that i love . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit would leave a gaping hole of the eu . but it would n’t bring down europe as a whole . currently , the same can not be said of the uk . it is not “ christine python ’s flying circus , ” ” ” “ yes , prime minister , ” or “ fawlty twin towers ” ; it ’s just boris , michelle , and nigel farage , and their catastrophic political realities .
yet , for both sides , as well as for outside powers , the events of 1948 and what followed , occupation since the 1967 of the remaining territories of historic palestine represents a tragic failure . israel is most at its fault for this failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . but , at the same time , the international community , the palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility in the same way , albeit at different levels . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians tend to remember the nakbeh , or “ catastrophe ” – their narrative of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . despite offering lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s staunch refusal to abandon its occupied territories continues in a direct contravention of what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 termed the “ inadmissible land hunt [ by force ] . ”
tantalizingly , they say that doing this would create “ a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , ” though they do not explain how that market is structured . reducing uncertainties might augment uncertainty , or even be superior to , a fiscal stimulus program ; for it , it would address the root cause of unspent individuals . blanchard and his colleagues emphasize that banks might impose loans on firms on their purchases of recessions insurance , which might help credit markets function better , address a serious problem underlying the current crisis . in addition , recession insurance might , unlike fiscal policy , impose zero costs on the government ; for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk that they will be insured against . the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers .
first , fiscal and external-account balances are to be kept in check to ensure financial stability and sustain the common currency . second , eliminating imbalances is national governments ’ responsibility in the context of a face-saving scheme , arranged by the supranational authorities , and the european central bank , in collaboration with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in europe ’s fundamentals . the greek saga demonstrates that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crisis . imbalances are not simply the result of irresponsible policies .
china ’s downturn looks sudden ; after all , its exports grew at double-digit rates this year , until may . moreover , chinese exports sometimes would amplify in the face of a slump in the amount of freight shipped from lumber . as a result , the trade surplus continued to decline , to $ 20.4 trillion , fueling growing anxiety about a chinese slowdown . in fact , the chinese economy ’s true condition has long been obscured , but it has now been subject to tighter regulation of activities like speculative trading in renminbi masquerading as trade transfer payments . specifically , china ’s “ two systems ” in one country ” enabled exports to bonded stores in hong kong to use pad trade statistics .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders adhere to newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , the m & a point is only the first step on the long road . for most equity investors , the value of any project depends largely on effective post-investment management . as chinese firms invest overseas , as mine holds , they have a responsibility not just to invest wisely and sustainably to the supremacy of their firms , but also to incorporate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . explicit rights and duties , therefore , must work carefully at the outset to invest , something all but absent previously .
as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving . to make a proactive contribution to peace , japan will bear its own share of responsibility for assuring the security that supports global prosperity and stability . members of the asean self-defense force have displayed exemplary cooperation with america and australian armed forces in the run-up to the great east japan earthquake in 2011 , and have earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere , including from haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . working alongside countries with which we share our shared values and interests , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and sea . and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s self-defense forces .
how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ? for all that israel does play its relevance , the arab peace initiative of the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers a critically important deal : full normalization of relations by the entire arab world , in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . israel , as the founding father david ben-gurion , may be the jewish state , it may emerge as a democratic state , and it may be an occupying arab whole ; but it may not be all three . how is israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , are left with any credible capacity to negotiate if talks can not start until , as israel insists , they retreat on its minimal condition of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if the two-state solution disappears completely from the agenda .
but , even with favorable world market conditions , the us did not manage to resolve the underlying poverty problem in which millions of russians still live . we russians rode into oil and gas on the way to forget that these resources would not last forever . but , even with favorable global market conditions , the us did not manage to address the global poverty problem in which millions of russians still reside . we russians rode along on their oil and gas ; forgetting that those resources would not last indefinitely . we need a democratic , competitive environment , an initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and a genuine level of public control .
the first , and more desirable , is for the ecb to assess realistically greece ’s lack of solvency , and so stop providing eurobonds to its banking system . but allowing greece to default , and still remain in the eurozone , is not an option : it would signal to the rest of the eurozone that other eurozone countries could pick up the enormous debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention of repaying . yet forcing a defaulting greece from the eurozone – against its will not be an option , either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability ; and it would doubtless take significant repercussions beyond the country ’s borders . fiscal responsibility within the eurozone would be fatally undermined . in my judgment , there are only two viable options left .
for example , china imposes a idle-land tax on formerly public lands as long as its proprietors fail to initiate a development process within a year . additional savings are possible through industrial approaches like the use of constituents , for example , at wall street and flopping slabs , built offsite offsite . this brings us to the second key lever to expand affordable housing : a more cohesive and efficient construction sector . by standardizing design elements such as ceiling heights , fixtures , and flogging , construction companies can cut costs and generate productivity as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks . as it stands , the microbe construction industry is highly fragmented , impeding its ability to take on economies of scale , with service builders often relying largely on the same methods that were used 50 years ago .
if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . what has been encouragingly , the developing-country governments have increasingly demanded that predispose of hpv vaccines . this is one reason why cancer specialists , government leaders , and civil-society leaders met a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth stop trefln , breast , and prostate cancer in the africa conference . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not just an effective option ; one that is preventing 1,500 death deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; that is often the only solution , because the world ’s poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this makes perfect sense : of the 266,000 women dying from cervical cancer each year , on average , of just 85 % are in developing countries .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigation in brazil has exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships among private firms , government-bureaucrats , and elected politicians . corruption scandals have already reached the highest levels of brazilian society . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva , it is now under impeachment . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and executives were both convicted and imprisoned . meanwhile , the drama has taken on a toll on the brazilian economy .
nevertheless , one remains to be seen whether health-care pressures will ultimately produce the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse , with very large swaths of the economy reverting to a more socialist system . all told , most countries rely far too much on command and control , and give far too little incentives to encourage patients and providers to make efficient choices . that raises long all of this around , but actually exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions . some societies might decide that it is better to be purely red than it is dead . i am not arguing against health-care capitalism , but warning that support will become fragile , far more so than is true of , say , globalization nowadays .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james shoppers maxwell ’s equations , which depicts electricity and magnetism fundamentals , “ had an independent existence and intelligence that they are wiser … even their discoverers that we get more out than they were originally laid out into them . ” not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s atomic model “ the highest form of musicality in a sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman , describing his discovery of new laws on physics , declared that , “ you can recognize truth by its beauty and its simplicity . ” similar sentiment is well all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking might never produce working iphones , photos of pluto , or even atomic bombs .
in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed because of two contending groups , stuck in a war of attrition ; all understanding that adjustment is necessary but expecting the other group to bear the brunt of costs . why , with clearly formulated alternatives on the table , did the government choose an predictably catastrophic course of action , at such high human costs ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intention , and strategic interactions . by delaying , they provide information to the other set of groups about their willingness to resist pain . let us start with the last .
a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much more secure and secure world for america . here is where the fed comes in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime toward a target of 4 % annual inflation , or a period of 6 % annual nominal gdp growth , america would be set in motion rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . rather than see the 30 % euro appreciation that follows from the ecb ’s current monetary policy , german exporters would shout for measures to prevent america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” finally bringing about moderate global inflation , rather than its current grinding depression , in the south . a world in which the american view has a proven track record of satisfying the trust that it demands to play the role of the global economic hegemon is a far better world for the us than it is to believe .
and a host of 47 republican senators has wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next us congress might not honor whatever kind of nuclear deal they reach with obama . bilateral engagement will prove one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . but ensuring that america can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require another type of engagement . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in the fact that it still needs multilateral engagement , and that is always more difficult than bilateral engagement . true , multilateral leadership requires not only clearer and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to meet the costs of such rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold “ responsibility to protect ” civilians , or by taking concrete action to reduce them – and eventually eliminate – us nuclear arsenals .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have shattered their countries . venezuela ’s destruction must be halted urgently if its viability as the state and society are to be reformed . to be sure , maduro and his associates do not simply take the step down , because losing power would likely mean long prison terms in the united states for drug trafficking , or at the hague for crimes against humanity . while they claim to be redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they reject international assistance , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , die ) from severe shortages of food , medicines , and medical supplies . this demands a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , selected through a free and fair presidential election before the end of this year , as dictated by the us constitution .
but the effectiveness of such investment will depend on the sequence and rates of implementing them , and on how skillfully they are tailored to each locality ’s distinct resources , needs , and aspirations . four interrelated issues must be addressed , and each must address each other . so far , china has mostly taken a “ field of dream ” approach to urbanization : “ build it , ” and come . indeed , over the last 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in the coastal provinces . and now , china ’s leaders are increasingly taking that strategy into their own hands , earning critical investment in both physical and human capital .
his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , exacerbated his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states along the same lines ; and , in the recent crisis , all it earned him a surprise to ridicule louisiana speaker broadcasts . if china is really distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost entirely isolated internationally . will kim respond that isolation recklessly through continued antagonism with the south , or pragmatically , by becoming a more flexible he will resist . that is not an easy question to respond ; he certainly should be very clear . it should be obvious to kim , now that his full-throated parade of provocations does n’t benefit his own country .
alone french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish migrant workers – has emphasized the issue , alluding to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that has developed in his own country . europe can not afford an ethnic clash ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more migrants . all that has changed since then is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some young people . yet the statistics are bewildering and at times conflicting , but the european union ’s current foreign-born population of some $ 33 million may have grown by another 100 million immigrants by mid-century . the need to address this outcome in france and throughout europe has become more important than ever , as rioting and criminality are matched by far-right political parties .
this applies especially to the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . countries where english are not the lingua franca are particularly handicapped in science not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . non-english-language academic journals simply do not command the same attention within the science community . as the english-language empirical-research journals consolidation their hold on the channels that determine whether or not a scientist will have prosperous careers , developing countries will have to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on an increasingly competitive footing . as a result , the extent of research topics that many countries can undertake is limited , and they will have to struggle to retain scientific talent .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank annual meeting , malpass needs to address those concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his past or his links with the trump administration , but through his delivering . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
but what matters is the real interest rate , that is , the gap between the market rate and the rate of inflation . in fact , there are essentially two competing explanations . the first , larry summers , has been floated by the secular stagnation hypothesis . his keynesian premise is that an equilibrium interest rate at which the demand would balance the supply side currently falls to below current actual interest rates . this looks paradoxical , because interest rates are near zero in most advanced economies .
for their part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during crucial periods of league plays . but the most important lesson revealed by the cup ’s africa is that the successful nations are those that unite the opportunities of globalization with a strong domestic foundation . for the winner in the cup had been neither cameroon nor cote d’ivoire , or some of the other african teams that were loaded with star players on european leagues , but egypt , which fielding only four players ( out of 23 ) that play out in europe . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt had defeated in the last , featured just a unified player from the home club , as well as 20 from european clubs . few egyptian players would have known to europeans who watched that game , but egypt had played far better and earned to win .
berlin – the world ’s task in resolving north korean saber rattling is easier by confronting the impoverished and effectively defeated country . on the contrary , it is under such circumstances that calm foresight is the most necessary thing . the genius of the habsburg empire , started prince klemens von metternich von metternich in framing a new international order after becoming a napoleonic wars , was that it did not pressure a defeated france into a corner . though the metternich sought to deter any plausible french resurgence , by restoring france ’s prewar frontiers . on the other hand , as henry kissinger argued , victors in world war i could neither discourage a defeated germany nor provide it with incentives to accept the treaty of versailles .
america had a brief , sharp recessions in the 1980 ’s , followed by a long and severe one , in 1981/1982 . but the us economy did indeed grow in the interim – only barely enough to consider distinct recessions . at times , dating back to recession is a judgment entitled , perhaps a problem . and , having been separated by a transition from us president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential for two recessions . many economists believe that it was one important episode , and that is arguably the appropriate way forward in a larger historical context .
during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that roughly 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion , were subject to some form of american sanctions . indeed , large majorities of sanctions are being imposed by large countries against small countries . for example , sanctions regimes were introduced in the 1990s at an average rate of roughly seven per year . of the 67 us cases in that decade were unilateral sanctions imposed by the united nations . currently , america has almost 8,000 sanctions globally , with iran by far the largest measure of its federal target .
in those same tweet justifying his phone call with tsai , trump reiterated a phony accusation that china is devaluing its currency to gain export advantages vis-à-vis america . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of inward capital flight . even worse , by announcing america ’s withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) – intended , at least partly , to shape global trade and investment flows on the basis of western rules – trump is also abandoning america ’s policies that might accuse china of surging influence in asia . in fact , trump is evidently antagonizing china for having no good reason . his grasp of international economics in the us is either non-existent or ten years off its mark .
while china is a widely quoted candidate , its management tends to be focused on consolidating domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest . likewise , russia is a narrowly-based economy , led by a government-centered economy that focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . what we do know is that there is no alternative , great powers are willing and able to step in and assume what was america ’s role . in fact , china ’s interests in both its regional and global institutions appear to be designed mostly to bolster its economy and its geopolitical clout , rather than to help establish the rules and creation of broadly beneficial arrangements . india is preoccupied with its own economic development challenge , tying its contentious relationship with pakistan .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % year on year in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter , and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . since early 2010 , in order to contain inflation and property bubbles , the chinese government has tightened monetary policy . the chinese growth rate ’s slowdown is , to some extent , a reflection of the government ’s success in attempting to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as other official policies aimed at rebalancing the us economy . as a result , in june , inflation fell to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house price decline – for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately stopped issuing official figures – appeared to be stabilizing and may even have fallen , albeit modestly . the just-released growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china , but , by contrast , many will argue that china must re-stimulate its economy further to guarantee 8 % annual gdp growth .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . viewed from a moral standpoint , there is a strong case to be made for congruence by respecting a woman ’s individual liberty and bodily autonomy , rather than by compelling her to place her citizens ’ health or well-being by imposing an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy on the term . still , given how rife with misinformation and muddied by misresponding to the issue , policy debates often go nowhere when they frame abortion first and health-care issues . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village is exacerbating slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them up with the global development agenda . without access to education , this generation – to which the majority will quickly become a majority – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . but for how long will a majority serve a minority ? every day , more people arrive in nairobi , enticing their promise of occupation , resources , and a better quality of life only to realize that they are not equipped to survive there , and that their children grow up in a slum . at least half of those living in urban slums live in 19 cities .
the problem is that the principle can not be rigorously applied . the world in which we live is the small garden of a well-scrutinized land surrounded by a dim and dark forest of disaster . the disasters lurking well are legion : asteroids and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions ; earthquakes and tsunamis ; human over-populations and non-human extinction ; rising temperatures and spreads ; near-clean air and water ; the degradation of forests , farms , and fish . all of these disasters – and many others still envisioned – are possible , and germany is somehow unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of costs , to prevent everyone .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii era , us economic policy centered on unemployment . but employment is only one welfare facet ; in today ’s world , it is not enough . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the massive job losses of the great depression , reversed it only when world war ii , and the massive debt accumulated to fund it , jump-started economic growth , had a lasting impact on at least two generations .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the twentieth-century cold war pitted two competing military alliances against each other . the sino-american rivalry , by contrast , involves two economies that are closely integrated both with each other and with the rest of the world .
between 1968 and 1973 , british labour and conservative governments orchestrated the removal of everyone living on the 55 islands that now comprised the british indian ocean territory ( biot ) , divided from mauritius at the time of its independence . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited , and they left to fend for themselves . the way in which the residents of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed and lashed out their lands in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy for which the west can and should make restitution . at the time , the british foreign office argued that the chagos islands did not settle for populists . between 1968 and 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the removal of everyone living on the 55 islands that now comprised the british indian ocean ( biot ) and divided itself from mauritius at the time of its independence .
islamabad – late last year , pakistan witnessed a second consecutive successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan accepting office following his own party ’s victory in a landslide general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing to work with both technocrats and the opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
owing to the dodd-frank act of 2010 , the fed can issue emergency , collateralized financing only to at least five competent authorities – something of a problem if only your four largest banks go into trouble – and it needs to confirm that the counterparty has been publicly bearable , before any financing can be made accessible . but the task of establishing whether a troubled entity is viable is the best left to occur after the financial order has been restored . unless governments come to the rescue of intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark upon a long spell of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns . in fact , as its term implies , there must be “ emergency ” liquidity , which must be made affordable for systemically vital financial institutions immediately – even when they are insolvent and remedied . in any case , the countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during a set of cyclical downturns now seems destined to an expanded involuntary holiday .
at the same time , if greece fails to adjust its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness fully , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb is likely to do away with the risk of contagion to the rest of the euro zone and a consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . the eu and the ecb worry about the moral hazard of any “ bailout ” . fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more brittle and liable to default on their “ no-bailout ” chest of liquidity to prevent a run on their public debt , while sound policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility . a greek default , after all , could have the same global systemic consequences it did when lehman brothers collapsed in 2008 . sovereign spreads are already pricing a domino risk from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members .
sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , that region comprises many taliban sympathizers through their fellow pashtuns . such religious parties , a coalition of which now ranks provincial governments in the north western frontier camps , have been politically marginalized until given the central role of pakistan ’s military dictator of the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert encroachment into the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the ensuing pressure from washington have led to a u-turn by pakistan ’s away from pro-jihadi policies . throughout his rule , religion-based politics have grown alongside that of madrassahs and fighters trained and endowed with pakistani intelligence agencies . human-rights groups have long urged the necessity of expanding the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to its tribal belt , where the religion-based party has wide support .
throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . thus , it is that history , once again , has brought more triumph of ideology . throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . mainstream politicians may continue to nod when the global free marketplace is invoked ; but , in practical terms , the world is reverting to a older , more durable model . with america ’s loss of interest a chief prop of neoliberal policies , it has been pulled away .
the first few years of his rule were dominated by his struggle to gain control of the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s employees . cash starved , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which increased accidents and limited production . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , using it as cash cow ; many of his social programs were funded directly from the company ’s budget . his hostility toward the industry ’s foreign players ( he expropriated a few american petroleum firms ’ holdings in 2007 ) restricted investment and held production back .
moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and might also create the conditions that create problems for the regime ’s domestic adversaries . iran might also meddle in oil facilities , leading to sky-high prices and delivering another blow to american and global economic recovery . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility , given the enormous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran . an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear facilities means another possibility . one shortcoming of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan and the use of hamas and hezbollah vis-à-vis israel and others .
a lord northern north is remembered for losing the british union with its america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron might be remembered for losing two unions , with europe and between england and scotland . whereas conservatives want scotland to be in a britain without europe , scottish nationalists want scotland in a new europe without britain . and with northern ireland ’s republican , led by sinn fein , demanding a vote on reunification with the south , the very existence of the uk is now squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : may ’s government should quickly announce that it will negotiate with the eu on the norway option of eea membership .
assad ’s war aims to avoid a decisive defeat and gain international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography is not well positioned to an orderly divide along sectarian lines . assad ’s war aims have been downplayed to avoid a decisive defeat and gain international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . assad ’s regime ’s rise has been lend support to his government ’s claim that syria ’s risks being hijacked by terrorist groups ; nonetheless , the regime is finding itself increasingly isolated . a tight-knit member of his own clan , its political allies , and many members of the alawite minority are battling for their survival .
this is a narrative that afflict all segments of society , the middle class no less than that of the rich . there is no reason to expect the super-rich to act less selfishly than any other party . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of society , and have little need of government , then it is not because that belief is consistent with objective reality . it is because the prevailing narrative lines of our era portrays markets as the self-stagnant entities running on their own fuels .
but , while it may explain why capital spending has been weak and near-zero interest rates for the past three years , it can not really account for why capital spending was inadequate to prevent rates from now growing for more than three decades . here , the only explanation still stands out is the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive production , like manufacturing , to less capital-intensive activity , like services . should disorder have multiple causes , multiple measures should occur . either way , central banks should establish a higher inflation objective , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown . tax incentives should be for firms to hire the longer-term unemployed ; increased public spending on infrastructure , training , and research to compensate for loopholes in private capital spending ; and continued higher capital requirements for banks and strengthened regulations to prevent excessive risk-taking .
once again exposure to western values gave another village of potemkin ; russia presents a façade of law and democratic institutions , but behind the fact that cardboard surface in the same kind of arbitrary brutes rule . the risk for the world is that putin exports to russia . look no further than putin 's attempt to rig ukraine 's previous presidential elections , as well as the subsequent criminal charges brought against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner — he had paid the g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example -- appears to have been lost on putin 's kremlin cabal . across russia 's near abroad , a form of benevolent diplomacy takes root .
throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people get only enough to survive the eu or participate in society . in latin america , too , many people live with overexstretched hands . there are too many entry barriers to the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit . across the region , the politicians that writer octavio paz once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres ” create eu clients , the people who expect the eu to demand . democratic latin america limps sideways , because it can not run ahead .
but this is not what those indexes actually measure . competitiveness , for example , has to do with its ability to raise market share without sacrificing margin or raise wages – something that reflects superior productivity . the inclusiveness of growth has to do with disparities in income and growth across different regions and social groups . as a result , two examples of this are the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , inclusive growth and development indices . instead , its indexes encompass variables – what they refer as “ policy space ” being intended to cause either competitiveness or inclusive growth .
from the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” from the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” so people seldom managed to return to their jobs after losing or leaving a job , or did so in an underground economy with its unreported cash payments . but , unlike in , say , the french , the dutch had reacted to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to encourage a return to work in the formal labor market . thus , people seldom returned to work after losing or letting a job , or did so in an underground economy with its unreported cash payments .
still , the significant segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america slips into recession in the coming months , trump will be reelected . moreover , their prognosis is not based solely on fear of being wrong again ; many seem resigned to such an outcome , and some may even hope for it . on this point , the comparison with the 1930s inevitably comes to a head . to be sure , there have little in common with trump and adolf hitler . but , in their obvious acceptance of trump ’s reelection , large parts of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s christian financial and industrial elites as hitler ’s ascended to power in the 1930s .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the “ game ’s ” rules , provide opportunities for youth , for whatever background , to ascend the income ladder . governments must take action , supplement their pro-growth policies with policies to ensure that the gains are shared far more equitably and sustainably . in order to avoid such a future , asian countries must change the “ rules of the game , ” by providing youth opportunity , for whatever their hindu income ladder . market-based mechanisms are not sufficient to achieve this outcome . to be sure , some asian governments have been attempting to tackle rising inequality with progressive redistributive policies . south korea ’s government recently , for example , has announced that it will raise its minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 for one hour ( $ 6.70 ) , and up to 55 % above its current level before 2020 .
the israeli infantrymen taped flashlights to their helmets so that a think tank gunners could direct their fire from egyptians just outside the us . still , egyptian artillery had become superior and was supposed to have at least silenced the tanks firing at the bds line . egyptian defenses blocked a central highway across the sinai with a fortified box containing powerful artillery and over 100 tanks , fronted by the three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground by every end . sharon had his forces climb up over sand dunes to enter the trench lines at their top-drops and attack down their own length – a straightforward maneuver that egyptians might have defeated were n’t pinned down by an artillery barrage and israeli tank firing straight at them directly . but paratroopers flown in with helicopters abruptly toned off the egyptian gun crews that never had any chance in hand-to-hand combat .
over the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , partly owing to the requirements that people in certain positions , such as child-care workers , have a first-aid certification . requiring that those in specific occupations – including higher-ranking teachers , nurses , and police officers – acquire mental-health first-aid certifications – would dramatically enhance participation , thereby bolstering support for those fighting mental-health problems . such certifications are even more important in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . the pilot work in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to communities with scarce resources . in the longer term , countries should aim to match attendance rates in conventional first-aid classes .
some quality producers of generic drugs , such as india ’s cipla , have offered to provide such drugs at prices not near the cost of their output . the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying of aids , even when drugs exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights , because patent protection creates a barrier to vital medicines reaching the world ’s poor . but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries come in conjunction with the assurance that the poor would gain access to the medical care they desperately need ? in response to the offer ( and the wrong publicity ) , merck , abbott labs , and bristol myers swquibb , three large patent-holding companies have announced that their willingness to deliver the african market at “ zero profit ” – ie , at around $ 500 per patient annually for the aids drugs they produce . but the cost of producing those drugs is far less than the market price , perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 per year for some three-drug combinations used to aids .
having never held elected office , macron has created a new party , centered on himself , with support from both center-left and center-right voters . that reading is reinforced by the experience of macron himself . he seems to have restructured french politics at the helm . but what if populist movements can sustain his continued electoral success is helping to drive forward by a broader political restructuring that ultimately reinforces european democracy ? next year ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such a political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , a cover for time magazine by her “ person of a year ” matters featured southern salome karwah , a nursing assistant not only to survive the ebola epidemic in her home liberia that year , but also help waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended with their maternal death . one year ago , she died from complications during birth , a killer that each month lasts twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic . childbirth was dangerous for women and newborns throughout the course of human history ; indeed , it was almost impossible for them to survive . yet karwah was a hero who met the tragic end of the cold .
the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . to be sure , the refugee labor issue is a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . an estimated two million syrians currently reside in turkey , and more than one million live in jordan . the majority live outside of refugee camps , and many are at work – for the most part – for the majority . with unemployment in both turkey and jordan at roughly 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments naturally remain wary of programs that might cost their citizens jobs .
the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq were undoubtedly complex . but the language used by those us neo-conservative promoters came straight out of the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the causes of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” one reason why americans elected obama in 2008 was that bush ’s “ america first ” rhetoric had once again led to the death and displacement of millions . now , when americans speak of “ liberty , ” businesspeople see bombing campaigns , chambers of torture , and the constant threat of lethal drones . the problem with obama is rooted in the conflicting nature of his leadership .
this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercises . this was followed by russian news reporting that china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises , named “ indira 2005 ” ” ” ” ” on the same scale before the end of this year . but that ’s because bush did not start to address an issue that is looming in the region ’s looming growing : the changing security face in asia , given china ’s growing economic and military might , is understandable . in the past , such a mix of countries was almost unthinkable , and such exercises can not be explained away as simple “ one-time ” ” ” ” affairs with little resonance . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news , via design .
they should consider reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and responsibility they need to address health-care and health-care outcomes . proven systems and reforms should be shared among emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and mindsets should match local conditions . this involves new , affordable technologies for use community-health workers . anticipatory urban planning , based on realistic demographics projections , patient registries , and health-information systems , as well as on the participation of urbanization networks , needs to happen . emerging-market governments need to address the critical issues that arise from weak coordination within and between , domestic and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs .
shanghai – the tight media control of the unrest in tibet has followed what , to some , looks far more open coverage for the devastating sichuan province of a major hindu earthquake . much to the consternation of western media consternation , the chinese people worldwide , lashed out against their allegedly biased coverage of the tibetan revolt . is that a change in china ’s media strategy or just a short-term change of tactics ? that question stands out beforehand with chinese public opinion in the latter phase of tibet ’s crisis . the thrones of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets protesting the prejudice they perceived in western media reports .
meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( the polymers ) , too , passed on to the liver , through glycolycolytic bins , to break down for energy . any excess glucose had stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which conveyed glucose into peripheral fat tissues , and caused the liver to store the glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . as a result , our forebears ’ livers stayed healthy . so , too , their livers , too , remained healthy . and nature did its part by supplying everything naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as source of energy , not both .
there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already won the battle against hiv/aids . across africa , the disease is estimated to have reduced the average national growth rate by 2-4 percentage points each year . across africa , the disease is projected to have reduced the average national rate of growth by 2-4 percentage points each year . sub-saharan africa possesses 10 % of the world ’s population , but it is home to more than 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already won the battle against hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has only become less
the uk would have to adopt the type of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping . to leave the single market would create grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial sector . even the us has said that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk . remaining on the single market nonetheless comes at a cost – one that british voters might not support . if that democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , it would be left on its own , in an economic cold .
as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly influence the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . the first is the process of managing afghan control , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the second is the election , also held in the 2014 new afghan president , a process requiring the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that they pass the country over to a legitimate government . for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite since the “ saur revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will be an even more nerve-wracking . as america ’s military leaves , it enters yet another period of political and strategic uncertainty , following almost a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated , democratic society knowingly walk into a foreseeable and avoidable national catastrophe is a rare and alarming experience . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . most british policymakers are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on the post-brexit relationship will inflict immense damage on their countries .
indeed , even if america were not attempting to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its long-standing , already much-reduced , support for the castro administration . this , in turn , is no longer an option . the normalization of relations with the us is the key to cuba ’s liberalization . after all , such change is best served not by imposing stimulative sanctions or through military “ shock and escalation ” tactics , as occurred in iraq , but through socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by external powers . indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of policy autocracy and economic opening might be accurate only in the short run .
much political activity has been focused , directly or indirectly , on exchange rates in ways that embody new economic and political divisions . though the country has not descended into protectionism since the onset of the global financial crisis , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in the key countries may compel policymakers to protect domestic markets while attempting to secure external competitiveness . it is well known that weidmann dislikes it at a time when central banks , particularly the european central bank , are buying sovereign bonds . but , while vigilance is in order , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , – initiating genuine currency wars – is slim . but arguing that unconventional monetary-policy measures would implement the risks of “ a far stronger exchange-rate politicizing ” misses the mark .
today , the american census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . a 1 % increase in the number of immigrant college graduates yields a 6 % rise in patents per capita . moreover , although studies suggest that the short - directly measurable economic gains at the national level are relatively small , and the unskilled workforce may suffer as a result of competition , skilled immigrants may be important to particular sectors of the policy problem . today , the american population is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now , it is still likely to top third ( after only to china and india ) . not only are levels of immigration relevant to the economic power ; given that almost all of the developed countries are aging and face an upward burden of providing fewer older generations , it could help reduce the preponderance of the policy problem .
likewise , emphasizing markets ’ “ critical role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift toward a consumer society . but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of the timeworn “ cor kitchen ’s ” approach to chinese economic policy-making – myriad proposals , initiatives , and goals – that are loosely connected at best , and that are often dogged by domestic inconsistencies . in fact , just two of the six major economic roles identified by the working conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . a new approach is needed , and will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework . the call for strengthened social security corresponds with the third plenum ’s proposal for allocating 30 % of state-owned firms ’ profits to fund safety-net programs like pensions and health care .
the vital economic reality confronting the ecb today is that america ’s economy is falling headlong into a severe slump – bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to this . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy , – including europe , is about to escape its effects – will escape it . as european growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . even with sticky european wages and prices , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices in world markets , all of which are important factors behind the currently elevated levels of europe ’s rate of inflation . thus , trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and allow an economic slowdown to work for him .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras appears to want to change that ) , while poland ’s own leaders have consistently warned that russia could become menace to the rest of the continent yet again . all the main players in russia ’s energy-centric economy were rapidly falling into line politically , which allowed putin to use ukraine ’s oil/oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . poles paid a steep price ; but they were wrong . eu countries that he could not bully militarily because of nato were wooed with retaliation or punished with price hikes . as a result , whereas hungary pays gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland pays $ 526 , the highest price in the eu .
in fact , a biopiracy is rare – so rare that it could be dealt with directly . instead , the world created a baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system , which issues systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and creation of intellectual property . the seeds treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a globally negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . but , while accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeals , impartial analyses have shown that they have little decision-making basis . likewise , the seed treaty brought under the control of its own parties , as well as the secretariat for 15 research institutions that comprise the advisory group of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership .
indeed , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei is cutting off his illegal efforts , and has now introduced a reversal of mashai ’s candidacy altogether . he has also reduced the resources channeled toward certain religious institutions ; helped those in his small circle to establish private banks through loosening regulations ; and challenged iran ’s most influential economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the president has waned considerably , with even state-run media alluding to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media now publicly criticized his economic and political agenda . with the end of ahmadinejad a second and final term fast approaching , a disgraced , unpopular president appears unlikely to abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment .
the tax plan emphasized that italy , like japan , is a country of public debt and private wealth . under monti ’s management , reforms were finally launched , and the markets were calmed . as the economist marco fortis points out , italy ’s family wealth remains , if not for a long period of time , second to none in europe . beyond increasing international credibility , monti ’s government has credibly increased taxes , especially on real estate , while preserving an already record-high income-tax rate . beyond increasing international credibility , italy ’s political landscape has shaped the electoral campaign .
but some lines need to be drawn when good government is possible , just as a personalized privacy zone in our personal and family lives is critical to sustaining the ties that matter most in our lives . one of the toughest lessons for senior government officials ’ study to teach – “ ­ ” including for me , when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister – is futility , in all but a miniscule minority of cases attempting to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . prosecution typically boosts fed leakers ’ stature , making it unnecessary as a deterrent . it does not imitating the original injury , and typically compounds it with more publicity . official media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than when perceived it debdening face , with outrage or degradation by those in power .
she wants to leave out ahead of voters that the leave campaign sold them a phony bill of goods , including the promise that they could secure all the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market without having to permit the free movement of labor . clearly , there is no form of brexit – or a post-brexit britain – that appeases the two groups . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as soon as possible . moreover , while may was in the “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that as prime minister she herself will be held responsible for possible setbacks in the brexit negotiations . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media invariably spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly ignoring “ victorious ” at all .
according to the global disease study ’s global burden , health risk factors account for at least 50 % of early death and disability among adults aged 50 and above ; for young people , that figure drops to some 26 % . to supplement such efforts , we must also invest to improve our understanding of how these risk factors – most frequently studied in connectivity with early childhood and adulthood – impact on adolescents ’ own health . beyond better targets , data-collection efforts should also include a refocusing on mental health . far more studies are needed to inform our health policy and planning appropriately . among other things , such surveys should seek to create a clear image of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drugs , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets .
“ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan and the eu that the people go to is the army , ” he said . pakistan these days is a troubled country , too , as it is economically . it is only a politician with the support of major constituencies that can hope to restore political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate with whom the military might support . but talk about regime change might nonetheless encourage musharraf to re-enter politics . thus , in a long conversation with the bbc before initiating his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan was the only institution that could save the country from its current woes .
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to ensure stable long-term growth in ways that , say , an authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to address this problem in a democratic context . first , governments could be bound to tie more firmly to their predecessors ’ political choices . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that has been talked and enacted will have time to take effect , with no risk that it will simply be canceled in the subsequent us administration . the european union provides one example of how long-run binding commitments might work .
the incheon declaration calls for allocating no less than 15-20 percentage points of total government expenditures to education . for the sdgs to be operating , education must receive higher bilaterally , nationally , and globally . moreover , the ongoing shortfall in aid to education must be reversed , with new finance sources like emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – all of which must be mobilized . this begins with the political will and top-down priorities . at the wef ’s incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi , has called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be channeled into every politician running for elections at every level of government .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on dollar peg ties their hands because it precludes them from raising interest rates sufficiently . ukraine ’s current refinance rate hikes are stuck at 16 % annually , and 10 % below the rate of inflation , which means that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of at least 10 % per year . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , the m3 , burst at no less than the 52 % average during the past year , which highlights the inflation hitting 30 % soon . ratifying it is always worse than a market . instead , they have reverted to tough reserve requirements , effectively ratifying credit , and thus causing a domestic credit squeeze in the midst of the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some medium-sized banks into insolvency , owing to liquidity problems .
the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime – & a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before , because neither conservatives nor the reformers were willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . iran would then find it harder to sustain its foothold in lebanon , with its position becoming more complicated , even in iraq , despite its shia majority . one can only hope that , given the gravity of the situation , this route to failure would be closed off . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a role . the fall of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then face a united front in arab states backed by turkey , the us , and , to a lesser extent , israel .
as mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations , has put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour has come and gone . ” the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the analogous argument that europe ’s peoples , singly and collectively , are the only states other than those that can “ exert global influence ” across the full spectrum from ‘ hard ’ to nods ’ power . the eu ’s approach to power-sharing , hammering deals , and resolving conflict through multiple committees may be frustrating and lacks drama , but it is increasingly relevant to many issues in a networked , interdependent world . its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project its military power , and sclerotic economics stand in stark contrast to the united states , even than rome ’s … ; but the issue is not europe ; it is our outdated understanding of power . insofar as the term holds any meaning , the world is bipolar and likely to remain so for the foreseeable future .
tehran – iranians will cross into the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is not exactly so clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly stated in public settings that he will not declare his preferences among the candidate . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , outgoing ayatollah khamenei said that “ there were some nefarious candidate to run the presidential election . ” but i do have one vote , and i would not designate a certain candidate , because the people themselves should elect their respective candidates .
likewise , moving to a territorial tax system will raise taxable profits , particularly in the short run , as corporations repatriate some of the current overseas funds stocks . but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower tax rates on personal incomes will boost taxable incomes as individuals raise earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will move toward surplus in the future . while net tax changes may widen the fiscal deficit in the short run , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . the republican party has only a very modest majority in the senate , where the filibuster requires an three-fifths majority of legislation , giving democrats the ability to block a republican tax agenda .
combining them has brought its asylum system closer to collapsing ; separating them would have helped to ensure that those in fear of a lifetime can receive a fair hearing , in which their rights are protected . and policymakers must not wait to implement the next migration crisis before the scheme is implemented . likewise , the eu needs to restructure its operations sophia initiative to fight refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , europe needs to manage economic migrants and asylum-seekers in isolation . addressing the eu ’s genuine economic and social needs requires an efficient blue – or green-card policy for economic migrants with an overall immigration target .
in both cases , attempting to defend a fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals was an important factor , as was true in turkey during its year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 . will the fed engineer a gradual reduction in qe bring with it more emerging-market problems this year ? to what extent today are those conditions comparable to those that triggered the 1997 asian crisis , or that of other abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? emerging-market bulls point to the fact that most major middle-income countries have substantially lowered their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them fiscal room that they lacked in the past . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 , nor the 1997 asian crisis was caused by large government deficits .
already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps to work 20-30 hours per week . at the same time , the younger people are long for greater education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies allow the older people to work more years , and let everyone work fewer hours . one option is to shift toward a 25-year average workweek and average working life stretching from age 70 and to even higher ages as healthy life expectancy continues to climb . such a reform could be implemented over a couple of decades without slowing economic growth or shrinking prosperity .
denmark ’s government has done just that , and it seems to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . prime minister tony blair is obviously convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible to make an effort . british public opinion is now so hostile , to the eu in general and europe in particular that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . indeed , “ rarely cing down ” britain in the eu is simply impossible . it is that commitment by which the government is now tied .
while the bush administration remains skeptical about the science behind such projections , some state and local governments are enacting measures to cut co2 emissions . even more important , companies like general electric are committing to green goals that go well beyond government regulation . a recent report by the us national energy policy commission exemplifies a new grand coalition . at the center of the spectrum of scenarios considered the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times their preindustrial level in 2100 . while president bush argues that the technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cell cells will curb oil imports in the long run , such measures require major changes in the transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete .
the important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to attain deep understanding , not rote memorization , of subjects that they study to fulfill the role of true expert in no field they ultimately choose to pursue . at the same time , they should invest in acquiring communication skills that will be similarly pivotal to successful careers . achieving this kind of education probably means pursuing what one naturally sees as interesting and engaged , whether that is finance or physiology . in the business world , people in these fields are ultimately purchased and sold by corporate managers . in fact , hardly anyone makes it all the way into the top business world .
but that day is also about spreading the message on the behalf of elizabeth and other women such as her own : abortion , whereas in many countries a political wedge issue , is simply a reality of life . abortion occurs in every country , and within every socioeconomic class . however , abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services is often restricted . in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties , and 59 % are already mothers , and almost two-thirds are defined by organized religion . each year , around 25 % of all pregnancies – roughly 56 million – end up .
the second argument is that if the ecb is standing solid , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , because they will understand that this would lead only to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . there is no irrelevant truth to this argument ; presumably , monetary policy will have some effect on wage bargaining . yet one should n’t expect too much from a tough ecb stance . if and when wage pressures hit , the ecb , to stay true to its word , may be forced to raise interest rates much further than it now anticipates . the ecb should not delude itself into thinking that a small rise in interest rates will be enough .
but the megaupload offered cash rewards to users who upload their subscribers that proved popular with other users . last month , the united states weighed down legislation that aimed to halt online piracy . dotcom ’s lawyer argues that the megaupload was just providing storage for its subscribers files , with no control over what they store . the bills were written off at phone calls from hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries that claimed that breaches of copyrighted online cost america ’s 100,000 jobs . megaupload permitted its 180 million registered users to recover and roll back movies , television talk shows , and music , and some of the money earned by dotcom ( from advertising and recharge ) was on display at its mansion near auckland , where keeping his rolls-royce and other exotic automobiles .
moscow – when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins in just a few days , viewers would be presented with the minutive choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . the images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are , of course , the last thing china ’s leaders have had to mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” as part of an idyll of a “ harmonious development . ” but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallel is hardly far-fetched . indeed , by elect albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , to design a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics , which was the hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like those regimes , whether because of fascist or communist rule , china ’s leaders have sought to transform public space and sports events into visible displays of its mission and mandate to govern .
if anything , the economists were the embrace of that role has grown stronger ever since . but it has also made the subject less relevant , reducing both its own legitimacy and credibility . economists no longer see much publicly questioning the right questions , or trying to answer them with integrity . to recover their credibility , economics needs to become more open to criticism of assumptions , methods , and outcomes . the inconvenient truths spoken by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely .
on the other hand , china is dynamic and outward-looking , providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engaging in constructive partnership with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure throughout eurasia ) . and this imperative extends to chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . europe is in the throes of a series of economic , social , political , and institutional crises . at the same time , the united states is a reckoning with an already psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability , and global leadership .
other than the presence of a few people ’s liberation army troops , one would be hard-pressed to search for any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime , or of its founder , mao zedong . equally significant was the projection of china as the nascent leader of a new international cultural order . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium was the creation of a multinational design team by herzog & de meuron , with suggestions from the visual artist ai weiwei . many of the artists involved in the creation of a spectacle , including the national fireworks cai guo specialist cai guo qiang , the dance star shen wei , and composer tan dun , have earned their glory primarily in the west . in keeping with china ’s recent effort to project its “ soft ” arm ’s party , the opening ceremony produced the idea of an historic but dynamic culture at its best .
the answer , it turns out , is to help them do the things they are already doing on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but particularly in the developing world , is through the promotion of financial autonomy . in many areas , this means supporting “ informal savings ” groups , the ” networks of like-minded women paying dues to build shared resource pools . that money can then be drawn on to fund certain kinds of items , such as small business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs . my research , which featured thousands of interviews on women from india and burkina faso , has centered on one question : how can the international community improve the well-being of the world ’s poorest women ?
president putin ’s behavior at the summit was clearly demonstrated by what he thinks of europeans ; rather , not too much . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative world government but the fact that the g8 days now seem numbered . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spreading across the world , particularly on the far east atlantic . both politically and economically , china and india are more important today than some europeans think . thus , the summit ’s outcome was far from a miracle .
while the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the epas ’s trade gains , like negotiated , probably focus instead on several agricultural products – and on the exclusion of the least-developed countries . in most areas , the epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining the trade-driven industrialization in africa . some will argue that the problem is all the more about the timing , since losses are likely to materialize immediately and the possible benefits implied by increased access to eu markets will take longer to emerge . looking ahead , african leaders are right to worry about . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some short-term losses .
for the americans , there has been an `` heroic or even triumph account , '' in which atomic bombs represent the final blow against an aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . the choice , and a combination of data , is enough , but the best way to achieve a certain end . for example , in 1995 , the smithsonian institution in washington sought to use some fresh look at a enola gay , a plane dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima . john dower , the american historian and modern japan 's specialized staff , had studied the issue at length . he demonstrated how history can be presented and prized in totally different patterns : from an american or japanese point of view , despite nobody making facts or falsifying sources .
moreover , johnson has already disbanded the us petroleum service team that had led previous negotiations . any new deal will be ’s old bargain with few bells and whistles . it will push the real issues down the road , rather than concluding the brexit debate . it would have to be paved the way for a october 17-year european council meeting , where europe ’s leaders are growing increasingly frustrated with the entire process . that show has years to run .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own citizens left the void vacated by putin and iran . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán in particular have been busily staging illiberal intra-regional states . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own eu was not bad enough , we have also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off , within the european union itself . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who horriteningly – but not surprisingly – resemble putin and erdoğan . european leaders all too often shout from the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests .
to deliver opportunity and security to all , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that address workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . a common framework also needs to be created , so that such programs can be scaled up and implemented in diverse contexts . and standardized educational credentials would retain their value as they displaced with those who generate them . as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of the benefit systems . for example , delivering benefit points , ” ” ” ” ” rather than carrey-denominated products , would enable regimes to operate across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same .
rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers came to the awe of wall street ; brazil did not have such hang on . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are worried by their own well , rather than by the prosperity of foreign investors . if and when the latter limits , brazilian policymakers do shed few lines of tears for international investors . moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil will react to crises in far different ways to mexico . on the surface and beneath the bottom line , brazil has turned a dramatic spin : inflation is down to negligible levels .
by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases may be locked out of forests and soils . yet , while techniques already exist , success will require increased use of no-till farms , acceptance of the principles of permaculture , better management of wetlands , and use rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . transforming the way people acquire and consume energy while using land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set course for success . yet do not despair : there is still time to conserve our climate for any time yet . the power of markets to drive radical shifts in energy and land-use change is large ; but , as 2017 ’s storms should remind us , the climate emergency that we are confronting requires vigorous and urgent action .
but , after former us president barack obama tried to rehabilitate america ’s health-care disaster with halfway measures , arguably the most that was politically feasible at a time when those vying for the democratic nomination clearly have more ambitious plans . many of the democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of the bush administration ’s government-funded health-care program . warren , meanwhile , has proposed introducing universal child childcare , funded by a wealth tax of fortunes above $ 50 million . a few contenders , including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke , do not fully agree on the details of such schemes or have simply been captured by them . yet their proposals , a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , the national health service , or anything else , do n’t all that much .
yet there is another explanation , one that fits fully with rationality and self-interest . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face a problem of asymmetrical information . when mainstream politicians lose their own credibility , it is natural for electorates to discount the promises they make . they argue for “ the reformers ” , but why should voters believe leaders who seem no different from those of the earlier crop of politicians who have oversold them by globalization and pooh-hed their own grievances ? voters are more likely to be attracted to candidates with anti-establishment credentials and can be safely expected to depart from prevailing policies .
today , leaders in rwanda who are widely viewed as an african achievement story have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . a landslide reelection of president paul kagame last year had more than enough to do with power than democracy . a conclusion i draw is not that human rights do n’t really matter ; it is that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable as long as the tradeoff is sustained in economic and institutional governance . politically , rwanda is a strong , disciplined , and organized system . though kagame remains popular , his reign was widely criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote .
cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on a threshold level of safety , stability , and predictability . it is this threshold that appears to be under threat . throughout their priorities , it is arguably more important for g-20 governments to strengthen core systems that allow global flows than it is to address strictly economic questions . continued economic progress throughout the developing world and healing in advanced countries require prevent local and regional conflicts from delivering large , systemic shocks . moreover , there is an obvious , shared interest in doing so : nobody benefits from expansionary systemic risk .
washington , dc – participants at occupy wall street movement are right to argue that large banks have never been appropriately investigated for the mortgage-related abuses , aggregation , and securitization behavior that were central to the financial crisis and losing more than eight million jobs . but leading banks are also charged with illicit behavior by encouraging people to borrow , for example , by deceiving them about the same interest rate that would actually pay , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities of investors . talks among state officials , obama ’s administration , and the banks are currently focusing on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclose on homes , and evicting their inhabitants . if those charges get true , those bank executives involved may fear that civil lawsuits would uncover evidence that might be employed in criminal prosecution . but , motivated by the efforts of new york city attorney general eric schneiderman and others , serious discussions have begun in the united states regarding an out-face of court mortgage settlements between state attorney generals and prominent financial-sector firms .
“ across their rivers and down their road and along countless jungle pathways , east pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage into india : an endless unorganized influx of refugees with a small number of tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothes piled onto their homes , bearing their ailing children and their old . they pad along barefooted , with a mud sucking up in their heels in wet ’s part of wet . many people are sick and covered with sores . they are silent , with no child whimpering now and then , but their faces tell the story . others have cholera ; and , as they die by a roadside there is no one to bury them .
now the global spotlight turns to france and its looming presidential election . charges of currency manipulation and the threat of protectionist measures have intensified . a premature victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a crumbling world order . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that powered european integration and kept it to the very center of the post-war global multilateral system . with the uk giving the world free trade for most of the 1980s having now decided to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are putting national sovereignty ahead of global public goods .
new york – when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my native sri lanka , i could n’t wait for my first-ever sex education class . in our early teens , my classmates and i were just as curious as we were clueless about sex and sexuality . still , rather than receiving reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply passing a book told to read a specific chapter and left to figure things out on our own . millions of young people worldwide have similar experiences , often with severe adverse consequences . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . “ if a revolution ” is supposed to happen , let us pledge than he has undergo , ” otto von bismarck once said . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already given a wake-up call to firms and policymakers worldwide .
four decades after the nixon shock , no one disputes that china benefited enormously today , a impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . instead , global reintegration has transformed china into an economic powerhouse . china ’s presence is felt all over the world , from mines in africa to apple stores in the united states . it is the world ’s largest single exporter in volume terms , and is the world ’s second-largest economy . as the us reflects china ’s remarkable progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to reflect how china continues to fall short of systemic impediments to its long-term success .
how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the intrinsic contradiction between an ever-more centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , longer-term growth could fall quite dramatically . sadly , avoiding the drift toward consumer-led growth and continued support for exports and real-estate investment has not gained much appeal , either . in fact , a significant chinese slowdown may already unfold . us president donald trump ’s trade war has been shaken by trust , but this is only a downward shove on an economy that was already slowing as it drives the shift away from export-led – and investment-led growth toward more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . with china already the dominant global exporter , there is neither the market space nor the political tolerance needed to maintain its previous pace of export expansion .
the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , understates the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy . the arab world faces major problems , which are likely to be met only by a more flexible , democratic political system . it calls for democracy to provide an informed citizenry with the ability to question its government . a well-educated citizenry is also essential if young men and women are to acquire the skills required to pursue job opportunities in today ’s globalized and competitive world . alas , rather than advances , what we are seeing is the cycle of inadequate educational opportunity that has led to poor economic opportunities .
the us president threatened to wreck turkey 's economy if it did what it enabled . with the kurds – most of them civilian – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council remained typically silent , while europeans denounced all and everybody else involved . as foreign-policy disasters pass , this is one for track record books . yet the seeds for this larger conflagration were been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan calls . absent any coherent policy , conditions became ripe for a full-blown crisis .
and such an approach would cement the notion that the central bank ’s policy is “ the only game in city , ” ” relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility to pursue growth-enhancing policies and the fiscal choices they control . a less risky and time-tested path for stimulating demand would be a substantial increase in public-infrastructure investment funded by governments ’ debt . it is well documented both europe and the united states have under-invested infrastructure . but a <UNK> ter-money program – a fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also involve a radical departure from policymakers , requiring an abundance of caution in citizen and investor perceptions , confidence , and solid governance structures . from a macroeconomic perspective , the “ twofer ” infrastructure investment boosts productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and boosts demand , output , and employment with a substantial short-run multiplier effect .
in the past 30 years , just 317 of 676 projects sanctioned by parliament have been completed , and it is hard to imagine how railways will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to handle the remaining 359 projects . and , if all of this were bad enough , india ’s leadership seems not to be recognizing the challenges posed by the railroads . with the government losing $ 4.5 billion a year by subsidizing catches fares , it had little money left over to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improve safety standards , or speeding up trains . in a country where rail travelers can not even expect a clean toilet , much less the on-decennial approach , prime minister narendra modi ’s administration has been talking about introducing bullet trains – the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . as a result , the railways are running out of money before running off the plans .
cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . and there are many ways that state-governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . indeed , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and right-leaning “ red ” ( laf ) towns and right-leaning states across the us . a handful of organizations have now emerged to bolster urban governments ’ policy-making capacity , including michael bloomberg ’s government-sponsored innovation program , fuse corps , scores for america , social finance , third sector capital partners , and usafacts . under federalism , whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” incentives , it frequently assumes that state and local governments pursue the same goals .
we need to look beyond those figures to identify who truly bear responsibility for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and informational racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse . it is not until we identify the “ odious virus ” sources now afflicting our democracies that we can take practical steps to quarantine them . let ’s start with the “ patient zero ” right in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of right-wing , techario has coarsened politics in the united kingdom and the u.s. , not to mention his homeland with profits and political influence . murdoch ’s newspapers and television networks may just as well have patented the un-led recipe , dog-revolutionizing politics that spurred trump ’s rise and the brexit vote .