another aspect of any pivot involves moving away from the middle east as well . unlike east asia , the middle east remains the region mired in tumult , a fact of complexity that defies a analytical consensus . for decades , the middle east will remain the center pillar of the world ’s energy resources . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can diminish this region ’s relevance . are the region ’s crises stem from a lack of a peace with israel ?
with china assuming that course , india , outside the npt , but with 100 weapons of its own , feels the need to add up to its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes an even more determined effort to press for pakistan . with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any other nuclear-armed states to reduce their own ( far smaller ) arsenals until the big two are making even more drastic cuts to theirs . this logic of deterrence produces a snowball effect . china shares russia ’s worries about us conventional and missile-defense supremacy and increases and enhances its projected 240-weapons stockpile .
two centuries later , this was no longer the case : by the end of the nineteenth century , median standard of living in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution produced , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence production . so how , exactly , did these accomplishments come into play ? what were the small differences that turned out to matter ? early industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred , despite the loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent and profligate aristocracy . they occurred despite a near-tripling of the population , which placed extraordinary malthusian pressure on the economy ’s underlying natural resource base , and despite the mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for almost a century of intensive warfare against france , a power with three times britain ’s gdp .
her government created the ministry of international commerce to be responsible for drawing trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission previously handled such arrangements ) . the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on a wider global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis for being administered , rather than an existential implosion imagined by london-centric british newspapers . may is in no hurry to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though facing re-election next year , an increasingly desperate former french president françois hollande argues that she is ) . another new office , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage the political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . perhaps who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , it has already created the political strategy ’s institutional skeleton .
venezuela sought to fund itself with assistance from the international development bank ( aiib ) , which does not impose the type of conditionality that the imf bashers dislike . what the chinese did not require is that venezuela does anything to increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness . instead , the cdb lends on clandestine terms , for uses that are leaked and corrupt , and built-in privileges to chinese companies in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( skimpy ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . it merely requires venezuela to demand more oil as collateral . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment .
one tv advertisement reported that it was all about the low-rent tea party-driven cynicism . it featured two obama ’s clips , “ i worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass the law , ” ” ” ” and , “ what i ’ve done with senator dick lugar to pass the bill , ” and , “ on what i was reached with adam lugar , a republican , to help freeze loose nuclear weapons . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty to replace a fragile international moratorium – that is , force without american senate ratification – can not come into force . the background was not explained , but what obama had said in full is that : “ i worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that will ensure and destroy some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded weapons , ” ” ” ” ” and “ what i was reach for us senator dick lugar , a republican entity , to help freezing loose nuclear weapons . with lugar ’s defeat and a simultaneous exit of former republican moderates like senator maine snowe of maine , which were poised to put national interests ahead of partisanship , the senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties .
by definition , the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , have always been afraid of treason . maybe they will be imprisoned on the basis of assisting terrorists , but their country ’s treason generates little resentment . the safety of states anywhere in the world seems to forget about treason . they have called their crime izmena rodine – a betrayal of the motherland – and have married this high moral language to moderate transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally . insecure states are faster to sense acts of betrayal .
though ect ’s opponents believe that it causes brain damage , this is difficult to prove . but , while ect rarely produces clear clinical evidence of brain damage , and has since been shown not to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , on the basis of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . like antipsychotic narcotics , antidepressant drugs and tranquilizers eventually have an immediate organic effect . but , while ect rarely produces ect to tell brain damage , and has since been shown not to do that in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , on the basis of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . and , with few people now reaching ect involuntarily and in every case that consent is seeking , a large and growing number of get antipsychotic drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and classes for others , whose lives are shortened by treatments , with no efforts whatsoever to seeking their consent .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore recently failed to finalize an agreement about the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon take another chance to complete what would become the world ’s largest regional free-trade deal . their economic clout compares to their ambition ; talks go beyond traditional trade issues , which account for just five of the 29 proposed chapters ; and consider a wide variety of investment and regulatory challenges that will affect many millions of people – and not always positively . but , given serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . whether trade liberalization , in general , helps or hurt the most vulnerable is a complicated question . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and the ten other pacific rim countries , with combined annual output totaling about $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp .
late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to reach a consensus about open education ’s ideals and approaches , committing ourselves to working in cape town ’s open-education declaration , which was formally released on january 22 . open education promises to transform the existing textbook production pipeline into a vast , dynamic knowledge ecosystem that runs into a constant state of the creation , use , re-skilling , and enhancement . and open-education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interactions among students and teachers worldwide . open education promises to provide children with learning materials tailored to their individual needs vis-à-vis today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ off from the rack ” materials , combined with faster feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and improvements . exciting the case on open education is that providing free access is only the beginning .
what , in his opinion respect , are the boundaries to american engagement ? under what terms should the american use of its capabilities in the world ? massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” ” and ethnic cleansing involves “ civilian transfer by populations . ” almost 70 years ago , when george orwell investigated the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that , in his view , “ political speech and writing ” is largely the defenses of the indefensible . in other words , “ hazy ” language is required to obscure unsavory realities .
brussels – to many citizens in the west , what china does seem to be walking away from the country that “ keeps a cool head and maintains a low profile ” is ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one love a fine international bust-up . putting the australian mining executive behind bars for a decade , squeezing google , keeping the european union in bay for an important dialogue , and leaving a mid-level official wag his finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not the best way to convince partners in any constructive intentions . nor is it reassuring to remember that china , up to now , has been obstinate down sanctions on iran , investing in its major offensive military systems , and pillorying western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . but the point in reciting this litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as to demonstrate a dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a normal ” normal ” normal power , the world can forget the many hundreds of millions of people that it still needs to withdraw from poverty . the chinese leadership seems mindful of this dilemma , and is not actually anxious to be drawn into a ferocious competition with the west or even its neighbors .
the international situation at the time was no less dangerous . yet the us succeeded in ameliorating it , not only normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . this was accomplished , first and foremost , through dialogue . if it continues , europe will lose influence in world affairs and will become gradually irrelevant as well . fortunately , the us experience in the 1980s suggests the way ahead .
and , once these firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive measures that prevent actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . this heightened market concentration broadens the gap between firms owned ( capital ) and by workers replacing robots ( labor ) and those that robots use ( labor ) . and , with the economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. christina patterson , and john van reenen have shown , american industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have come to be viewed as the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . but confronting it will require that we reinvent antitrust for the digital age . these factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms , which have a reduced need for labor .
just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not so much by his political opponents but by jittery investors , it was markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to europe ’s fiscal and political union . that , in my view , is no cause for celebration alone . do we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s political leaders , especially the trend of “ merkozy ” merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? and whom are we left to thank for all of this progress in europe ? sadly not : progress came almost exclusively from much-maligned financial markets .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the american dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing industry could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand and thus hurting the brand of ’s brand of exporters . depressed equity and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 , thus illustrate the global nature of the problem that the us faces . expect us economic growth to be revised downward substantially since the federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . and demand remains depressed by the debt overhangs accumulated prior to 2008 . indeed , this pre-2008 us debt has n’t gone away ; it has simply been shifted around between sectors and countries .
paris – us president donald trump has been shaken by a transatlantic alliance that has long looked unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato an obsolete ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” the eu is about to collapse fast , anticipated , with a succession of countries following the united kingdom out . with trump now , the world has become accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals . the united states , its positions suggest , would be more than okay .
russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and the natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a wide range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technologies ( including satellites and gps ) , the ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for logging and hydrocarbon industries . all of these industries will reap the growth potential for tremendous demand growth in large markets like china , brazil , and india . but achieving the long-term trend growth led by high-tech industries will require a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign actors . those that have survived by doing just barely , with greatly reduced output going mainly to ex-soviet markets . in addition , the social and political environment will need to be conducive to a high-tech labor force , providing an attractive standard of life , ensuring civil liberties , and fostering entrepreneurship and creativity .
indeed , the right type of public investment would most likely spur more private-sector investment . a return to public investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms that are vary from country to country . and there is some potential for malfeasance , with expenditures continuing to be misclassified as investment . of course , the situation is not cut and dried . and yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( implying that little risk is crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to free up fiscal constraints to investment .
central to such tv programs is not that women play the leading roles . character , not gender , drives a narrative . outside the united states , women have already reached the upper echelons of power . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , who won three general elections , is revered or resented by her policies of austerity , rather than her gender . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is attacked for being mismanaging the economy and by america ’s banking interests for forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s territory , not because she is a woman .
with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may be unwilling to raise its federal funds rate until the summer of 2015 . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising fed governors and presidents of the regional federal reserve bank of japan , argued that the federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level , until the unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % , and may be projected to remain there or decline even further . but the caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous were proven and hence uninformative . the fed warns that it could raise the federal funds rate as long as the expected annual inflation rate rises from its current level of little more than 2 % to over 2.5 % . bernanke emphasized that the two policies are on separate tracks and will respond to various estimates of the economy ’s performance .
over the past 20 years , social inequality has been growing threefold . in russia ’s two million educated professionals , two million of them have emigrated recently from russia . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is only 6-10 % for the us , where the economy is fighting , even when oil prices , its primary export exports , are peaking . russia , prokhorov , concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement aggravating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that afflicts many oil-exporting countries . and , with housing , health care , and education less accessible now than in late 1980 , its political program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital , the key issue holding back russia ’s economy .
it is significant that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) allow iran know that , after 15 years , any action to position itself to reach a field of nuclear weapons , if not explicitly precluded by the accord will not be tolerated . nonetheless , a major effort must begin to assuage iran ’s fears about iran ’s neighbors , with several of which it is tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s potential sierra leone in 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear program . the world erred in enabling north korea to pass its ballistic-missile threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again . the harsh sanctions should be re-introduced at the first sign that iran is preparing its post-jcpoa breakout ; this , too , is not precluding accord . iran should likewise be notified that america and its allies would commit a preemptive military strike should it appear as an attempt to present the world with a bulwark accompli .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the currency ’s underlying strength . in confronting the years ahead , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s victory will almost certainly turn out to be wrong for the greens . that will boost near-term economic growth and , all the more inevitable , depress interest rates . longer-term trends regarding how money is used internationally – particularly as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling . for starters , the us dollar has been trifling out since its election only because trump vowed to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up tax-cutting spending for the decaying infrastructure , and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military .
throughout her political career in her own right , perhaps used procrastination as a victorious strategy . as home secretary , she often won battles against other ministers , simply by refusing to express one ’s views , or even to emerge in meetings until minutes before any final decision had to be made . but this happy outlook for may rests on one crucial assumption : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . european leaders could easily neutralize may ’s threats of a no-deal brexit , and thus remove any need to offer the concessions that she demands . to do that , they will have to grasp the method behind may ’s tohog strategy of indecision and delay .
in recent months , north korea has fired a series of ballistic missiles and conducted a nuclear test , discouraging the exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump . the problem is most acute when it comes to finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . and it extends 58th to institutional quality , owing to excessively loose government regulations , opaque corporate-governance and political instability . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to a mere 45 % that in the us , on average , compared to the oecd average to 90 % . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to an escalating north korea nuclear threat .
second , continued imperialism in the near abroad and chechnya reinforces the reactionary forces that oppose liberal democracy . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan over the period of slavery in the us shows that , just as liberal democratic ideals take root within a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to the colonial subjects of members or particular groups . so long as russia continues along imperialist lines , its democracy will be at risk . politically and militarily elements that lament the demise of the soviet-era state feeding upon the resources devoted to extending russian influence into non-russian republics . it is not sustainable for smolensk people oblast to live under a constitutional democracy , whereas the citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the victim of wanton shelling and ruin .
out of a japanese perspective became an `` account of victimization , '' in which `` atomic bombs have become a symbol of a specific kind of suffering -- rather like the holocaust for jews . '' at the hiroshima museum itself , the role of victims has been exploited in ways that are similarly distort memory . neither the japanese government ’s responsibility for initiating and continuing war , nor the inhumane treatment that war prisoners or subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule , is adequately acknowledged . whether we identify with heroes or victims , with airplane pilots introducing the end of wwii , or with a passive population , subjected to the hell of an atomic annihilation , we are always rooting for the “ innocents " and the ‘ good guys . everybody chooses the point that fits it best .
mechanisms of accountability should be established that allow victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . that removes the stigma of a charity and is empowering to victims . instead of being helped , because they have unsatisfied needs , they are given remedies , because their rights are violated . the intent of beneficiaries in following through on these actions should be defined as rights-holders . the framework also should include the non-discrimination requirement , ensure that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups , – not just the well-connected , the literate , the regime ’s favorites , and not just groups for which quick wins can be achieved .
that compulsory technology sharing is explicitly forbidden by the rules of the world trade organization . the most fundamental problem the us needs to address is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese steal us firms ’ ’ ’ ’ technology , and use it to help chinese firms compete against those same firms in china and around the world . the chinese do this in two ways . first , american firms wishing to do business in china are obliged to have a chinese partner , and to share their technology with that firm .
yet the battle within islam is not a satisfying or a sufficient explanation for a state of anarchy that we see in an area like south sudan , whose 11 million people won their independence only three years earlier . even though the newest country in the world emerged out of the bitter civil war between christians and muslims , the referendum of independence won 99 % of the support . yet it is today that 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted , which has nothing that must do with islam , and everything to do with struggle along ethnic lines for control of the country ’s resources . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against a clean . it is ripping countries and regions apart , devoting people to travel halfway around the world to join jihad , and threatening to unleash more violence against muslims in the same way that anti-christians , jews , and others .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , began as a program by which the us treasury department had purchased problematic , largely mortgage-based assets from financial institutions . in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , began as a program in which the us treasury department purchased problematic , largely mortgage-based assets directly from financial institutions . but that proved more complicated than originally thought , and in a few weeks the us government had simply recapitalized us banks . with this one unilateral decision in place , ireland has destabilized the rest of europe . other bad decisions were not so easily reversed .
hate speech , and other kinds of dangerous and illegal content , must be invaded at the source . on one hand , increased media literacy must be found on the part of the consumer , which needs to be taught , from the young age to the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other side , and this is what netzdg efforts to ensure – and social-media platforms need to ensure that their products are designed in ways that foster responsible use . but this is no quick fix at all . on the contrary , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models , which facilitate – and even reward – hate speech .
irrespective of what we think of britain leaving the eu , we may be asking two further questions , on one universal and one concrete for brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy take the right decisions directly , in a referendum rather than according to their elected representatives ? and , more precisely , should british legislators regard brexit as a result of the june 23 referendum ? on the general issue , the strongest argument for direct democracy in the eu is that it follows from the vision of democracy itself , subject only to the feasibility constraints . in earlier times , a small city-states might be direct democracies ; but , in larger countries where communication was slow , representatives should be elected to decide the many questions required to discuss and vote upon .
a huge coalition of technology companies and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to president barack obama arguing over backward door . in addition to “ undermining ” every american ’s cyber security , and the nation ’s economic security , the signers argued , “ introducing new vulnerabilities to weaken encrypted products would also undermine human rights and information security across the globe . ” what encryption supporters recognize is that , “ when american companies retain the ability to unlock their customers ’ data and devices on the demand side of their requests , governments other than the united states will seek equal access and will also be emboldened to demand the same power out of their native companies . ” the american government will not object , given its own policies . they regard a backdoor request in the same way that an auto manufacturer would view the entire request for a defective motor .
kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , headed by prime minister mahathir mohamad , has suddenly found itself mired in a political scandal following online circulation of sex videos involving a cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice resulting in the incarceration of people under justice party boss anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those that surrounded it , risks obscuring more vital problems . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could drive additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
indeed , macron took france into the unknown of the west through “ new politics , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” a terrain no longer defined completely by competition among large center-right and center-left parties . but is politics really turning the page on the traditional right-left cleavage ? at a time of much hand-wringing over the decline of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of populist nationalism , and a backlash against globalization are notable . macron has also signaled his determination to pursue a pan-european 2019 election campaign . as a democrat , he believes that deepening europe ’s union must go hand in hand with the developments in genuinely european political space .
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is a continued combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ” this outcome – which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in china ’s favor – is not nearly as unlikely as most people seem to think . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason why it needs to be taken seriously , including by china ’s military planners . fewer still , though it has recognized that the least bad military option – one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china assume responsibility for its rogue neighbor – is chinese incursions , or regime change has been forced through china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s threat to launch one .
“ ever since the world economic forum began debating personal data as a new asset class in davos in march 2011 , ” ” ” ” she told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the notion that personal data could be the digital economy ’s ‘ new oil ’ ’ as much as – so it seems – of politics . nor is it “ simply facebook and google , apple , or amazon , ” that harvesting and use our data for any purpose one might think , ” ” spiekermann argues . “‘ data-management platforms ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ platforms ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ platforms , like that conducted by acxiom or oracle bluekai possess trillions of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles by the hundreds of millions of users , ” ” ” “never many millions of personal attributes . as a result , “ more than a thousand companies now engage in a digital information value chain that its harvests data on any online activities , and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users , within roughly 36 seconds of their entry into the digital realm . spiekermann , a worldwide commercial identity authority for targeted advertising purposes , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , stresses the need to be broken up for “ personal data markets . ”
it gives the poor access to a broader set of commodities , while giving firms more diverse choices about inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill plant jobs and reduce agricultural prices – outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustments over the short term . in india , for example , poverty has decreased more slowly in areas where farmers face increased foreign competition . given constraints on inter-sectoral labor mobility , stemming from skills acquisition barriers and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest get few options when a change occurs .
for kenya , the nation ’s very public decline has come at a heavy cost . but it has also proven that press freedom means far more than letting journalists know what they want when they want it , and how it is wanted to do it . it also means holding media owners accountable . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions could benefit most from such a mirror , those who historically hold it now believe that they have no alternative but to set it down . for the most part , kenyans need a similar means to reflexive citizens today .
there remains a significant capacity overhang -- such as the fiber optic lines that remain dark has yet to see any light passing through them . only lowering the interest rate did not and will not do it , lead firms to invest more in these sectors . the first is already over ; the second is the -- the result of overinvestment in high tech and telecommunication , sectors that were so essential during the late-90s 's boom -- can last considerably longer . there is a large , good news -- and bad , that the pace of technological change in those sectors is fast enough that a large number of equipment could become obsolete well before it is packaged or even deployed -- which enables new investment to begin faster than it would otherwise be . the recession of 2001 combined an inventory downturn with the boom of investment .
once the bureaucracy and broad parameters for negotiation are established early next year , may will formally institute the withdrawal process through invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . two years of negotiation ( longer if the eu agrees to it ) will follow . by that point , the next general election will not be a long way off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . that , at least , is the formal blueprint . the three brexiteers , after battling one another like rat in a sack , will need to come up with a packet .
warsaw – in paris , western berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 were marked by student protests against the vietnam war . in denmark , too , the students protesting them , but their cause was not the same as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets in warsaw not to chant “ ho , ho , ho chi minh city ” in solidarity with the viet cong , but rather to defend their own countries ’ liberties and culture against smothering communist rule . rather than chanting ho ’s name , young poles poured flowers under adam mickiewicz ’s monument , a nineteenth-century poet , whose drama forefathers , written in praise of struggles for freedom , was recently labeled subversive and anti-soviet life , and its performance at national theater in warsaw deeply closed . these are just a few of the distinctions between western and eastern european students , in this springtime of the rebellion of forty years ago .
average gini scores ( rather than population weighted ) in the countries for which there are data declined slightly during the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 . starting in these studies , lustig argues in a recent paper , with no rise in world income inequality . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality that is run from zero for perfect equality to around 100 for perfect inequality ( one ’s person receives all of his income ) . crucially , data are comparable across a large set of middle classes – and in low-income countries , as well as data available for advanced countries . preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies show that world income inequality does not increase .
with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity . at the same time , while policies that encourage firms to boost wages will boost household incomes and domestic consumption , rising wage growth can erode export competitiveness , choke off inflows to foreign direct investment . the risk is that until reform measures take effect , authorities can rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation , and protecting structural vulnerabilities . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent growth at roughly 7 % per year , while undertaking pressure on rebalancing and reform . the final piece of the puzzle for china is realism .
it is worth recalling that , to join the eu , hungary was forced to comply with stringent criteria of accession , including credible democratic institutions , and adherence to the rule of law . throughout history , despots have taken advantage of the same tactics , using all of their political opponents . yet orbán is doing so within the eu as it is within 2017 . and , by shutting down such a prominent , us-supported institution , he can send the message that nobody with whom he stands to win . being eroded by those high standards has introduced a paradox for the eu .
soros : does you think that the current economic crisis is perhaps the final step in a universally philosophical crisis of the west ? soros : does anyone think that the current economic crisis is perhaps the last step in a generally shared philosophical crisis of the west ? soros : got a debate on this in 2000 , in my book the crisis of global capitalism . so long as it acting within the powers , germany is not in a position to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something genuinely substantial might emerge from the deliberations currently running behind closed doors .
moreover , it is not as though a flat capital contribution tax will hinder social mobility or boost poverty . indeed , since sweden adopted the same kind of tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate for labor growth has increased by a factor of four . in france , social mobility has not witnessed any major change at all since 1991 . by moving away from a university eligibility system of universal eligibility to a university level , one which finds a more suitable fit to provide all students after their graduate schools , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . given this , macron ’s revolution is on the move , with most of the time .
continuing prosecution has already transformed the calculus for any economic agent , who thinks in violation of general public trusts for private gain . aside from individual enterprises , whole value chains , which contribute heavily to a country ’s gdp , have suffered periods of sudden surgery and a financial freeze . there is now widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being captured and punished , regardless of their social status . reforming brazil ’s relationships with the public and private sector can improve the country on its long-term economic performance . but , while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by citing corruption and punishing offenders .
they have trouble seeing what is common to europe . even in the new member states , the enthusiasm for a european family of democracies is cooling . like the union races ahead , it appears to have lost europe ’s citizens along the road . many are turning their backs on the project of the entire eu . in their minds , they feel no part of great life .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his talk with a russian ambassador during the transition ( presumably about the lifting of sanctions imposed by president barack obama on russian businesses ) . it was widely anticipated that trump ’s son would confront impeachment , as he did , even donald trump-jr. , has said so – but barr ’s announcement ruled another prosecutions . yet trump himself remains vulnerable to the investigation launched by or is being handed over to federal and state prosecutor outside of washington , dc . moreover , us president donald trump ’s own son , jr. , coupled with other top campaign officials , met in trump ’s tower with a russian intelligence agency with ties to the kremlin , who promised “ dirt , ” on clinton . another prominent escapee from its special counsel is trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used the role of his white house , particularly on foreign policy ( in which he ’d not had any experience ) to attend to his family ’s need to pay out enormous real-estate debt .
pundits argue that the arabs are unable to manage a democracy . in fact , america and its allies simply do n’t like the results of arab democracy , which all of them are too often deriving from governments that are nationalistic , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when the baltic states go in this direction , america simply ignores electoral outcomes ( as it did in 2006 , for example , when hamas won a large majority of a popular vote in gaza ) . backroom dealings , and violence continue to dominate the day . the us can not stem the downward spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world is rousing itself against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa and south-asia . whereas aids is first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , it is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million people are suffering from it in africa ; six million more in asia . an estimated 34 million more people live with the hiv virus causing aids ; virtually all are signaled for early death . in parts of southern africa , about 20 % of the world ’s adults are infected with hiv . the pandemic claimed 19 million lives , producing 13 million orphans .
in most cases , the law on skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . the oceans belong to everyone except those nearby landmasses that are administered in comparable ways to the country ’s land-locked borders . the fragile treaties that conceal this are enforced mostly by enabling few nations to put up assets that high . as a result , the skies are usually conceptualized . airliners and fighter aircraft airplanes operate in “ controlled ” air near earth , whereas the nationality supposedly matters less when you go .
and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is just the beginning of the digital age and the end of the industrial age altogether . indeed , few other trends constitute a bigger threat to global stability . almost all societies have become heavily reliant on the internet , the world has some of the most critical components of infrastructure , as well as the very infrastructure on which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is misnomer ; soon enough , all will be the “ internet of things . ” the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cybercriminals , and other malign actors are already routinely exploiting .
china ’s industrialization strategy in the pre-reform era has rejected the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and climatic quality . wto membership will also force governments to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against economically sophisticated sectors with capital-intensive ownership , including agriculture . the same wto-induced sectoral adjustments underlies the bouts of steel and textiles in advanced countries like america . in china , most soes have survived , because central planners emphasized economic autarky , whatever the costs . jamaica takes a similar wto-induced sectoral adjustment underlies the failure of steel and textiles in advanced countries like japan .
as a result , italians have elected an unconventional coalition , whose program combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . whereas the league party is promising a significant tax cut , the five-star movement ( m5s ) pursues a form of essential income . yet before a new government assumed office , italy ’s cyclically-adjusted fiscal deficit , in contrast to its underlying debt positions , was often rather restrained in contrast to that of the rest of europe , just as other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) did . still , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country actually needs . likewise , there are some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , perhaps too-low inflation and high debt .
learning what a country is ( or can ) a good at producing is a key economic challenge . stimulating foreign investment , or liberalizing it , and then waiting for things to get better does n’t work . an effective strategy must go away with two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional areas and pot of projects and investment that fail . for that , governments need to deploy both the carrot and the stick . a carrot is needed because there is great social value in discovering , say , that cut flowers or soccer balls , or any computer software can be produced at a low cost , because that knowledge can orient the investment of other entrepreneurs .
the effect of the us dollar decline over the coming decade could be just as important . but not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain in america itself . if the true trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by about 25 % over the coming decade and the full effect of that dollar decline translates into import prices , the increased cost of imports would depress america ’s real incomes by about 0.4 % annually . combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the cyclical rebound effect of an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in us real gdp , this would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , far higher than the 1.9 % rate the decade ending in 2009 . if the us trade deficit were to shrink by 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , implied by a growth slowdown in exports and a decline in imports would depress output available for american consumption and investment by roughly 0.3 % per year .
the us second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its holdout bondholders on an equal proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as bond holders . the holdouts argued that , as long as the new bonds were serviced in full ( as they were ) , equal treatment required that holdouts should get the full amount owed out ( including not just interest but principal ) . it was that ruling that the us supreme court recently upheld . under a court rule , argentina might not be able to bail out holders of new bonds unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution could serve as an intermediary to make payments on argentina . as a result , argentina would have to pay holdouts full or default on new bonds .
zhou , a honorary fellow with the pla academy of military sciences , concedes that china ’s “ mega-projects will fundamentally transform the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ potent yet benign ” power . that is important because a new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean , where china trails india ’s longstanding dominance . to be sure , india is simply suspicious of china ’s behavior . but china is treading itself carefully that it can continue to advance its goals without spooking its supposed quarry . china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to build a sprawling , roughly magnitude of monaco on reclaimed land of colombo – a “ port city ” that will become a staple of china ’s nautical “ road . ”
yet sharif was an honored guest on modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . the modi government also adopted the upa-proposed goods and services tax that stalled opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s ’s gujarat ) . india ’s citizens , who assumed that they voted in favor of change , began to wonder whether the bjp would simply reprised upa government ’s policies . and it will strengthen the national anti-terror effort that modi has previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . many of modi ’s supporters in the media have already started decry a wide range of political abdications that modi has conducted since his campaign .
europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been wonderful . with today ’s emphasis on military action in what is called the “ war on terror , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the need conference to discuss security and military affairs , in conjunction with the charter of stability , has become urgent . in every conflict , human rights are between initial casualties ; in the middle east ’s degradation of human dignity , it has now undone international conventions that have been agreed over a few generations . a regional agenda must be crafted to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy comprising both energy and water policy , arms control and debt reduction . we should take a hard look at the helsinki process to show us a way to retrieve what was lost .
when the oecd proposed an agreement to restrict bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . they were doing the best that they could ensure that no meaningful reform enacted during the crisis , with the understanding that momentum for post-crisis reform would dissipate . who , after all , might hold out that bill clinton follows a u.s. president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifold ways ? for example , when the imf correctly proposed after argentina ’s crises to demand better ways of debt restructuring ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , the bush administration vetoed the initiative . in doing so , they were more right than they had known them .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 residents from hong kong gathered at victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protestors in beijing ’s tiananmen square . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s governance of a century ago . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted on chinese land . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s showcases reflected rising frustration , affecting not just china ’s leaders , but also its own . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom ’s return hong kong to china 20 years ago .
in order to choose the goals , and to articulate them in a vision , they need not just to solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their own choices . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be an effective diagnosis of the situation that a group faces . leaders need to get the question right before proposing answers . looking ahead , they need to be able to draw on the full assessment of reality . leaders need to get the question right before they can offer answers .
if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated , as governments become increasingly controlled supplies of strategic commodities , given the shortages that they are triggering . but , by making a business and investment climate worse , economic sanctions take their toll primarily on the private sector . finally , sanctions are supposedly effective in containing nuclear proliferation , with the us and europe facing a climate of their own . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . sixth , the sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments .
none of this applies to or without power anywhere in the region is willing and able to implement the barest vision for a new regional order , or even a vision for the part of it . central and eastern europe after 1989 , although a very interesting benchmark for analysts of arab revolutions is not an adequate benchmark , for the region has been perceived by a new domestic and foreign order that resulted from a change in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a clear vision of what they wanted : democracy , liberty , market economies , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted a west , and their accession to nato and the european union made a logical difference . nothing of the sort applies to the middle east ’s crisis .
new haven – by now it ’s ’s ’s all-too-familiar drill . following an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the united states federal reserve has begun the long march back toward normalization . now it has taken a first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate to the federal funds rate – a level missing neither stimulus nor restraint on the american economy . in fact , there is a dangerous mistake to be made in the wrong direction . a majority of financial-market participants applaud this strategy .
de gregorio ’s views are different from that of many of his peers in other countries , because he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become larger and apply what he calls the “ smart ” strategies that require a large degree of leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk , too , not least for fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees must be kept in mind . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms operating at lower levels of debt , the vulnerability to shocks diminishes . moreover , the build-up of risk in a financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both tough to measure , and likely to materialize only after a couple of years ( following a governor of office , for example , has expired ) . the danger for central banks stems from their failure to measure the implicit subsidies provided to the major financial institutions .
new york – no shortage of scrutiny has been offered to what russian president vladimir putin is up to syria , and why . what is known is that putin chose to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regimes . russian bombs and missiles are now raking on a array of armed groups fighting syrian government forces , which has given the regime breathing space that russia ’s intervention was intended to provide . as bad as assad ’s government is , and as much as they must respond to , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse . much of what is suggested , though it has been narrowly focused on the short term , and may be too negative when it is assessed its actions ’ likely long-term consequences .
employing data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( a log based on a vertical axis of the graph below ) tends to decline as a ratio to the income level ( revealed through a horizontal axis value ) . every blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy , with a solid black line showing the international average ( drawn from all wto member economies excluding china ) . the data pattern gets fairly clear-cut : as a country becomes richer , fewer anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it . this might be because richer countries observe rules better , making it less likely to attract complaints as their labor costs rise , or in some form a mix of the two . this can be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trade framework .
most bets are on britain ’s formal withdrawal in march 2019 , but , “ temporarily ” remaining in a customs union , give it , with two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the referendum ’s decision to leave the eu will be permissible , but its harsh economic consequences will be postponed : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft ” exit , but it will most likely be sufficient to ensure parliamentary approval . john maynard keynes put the matter right : “ words will likely be savage , ” because they are the assault on “ unthinking thoughts , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” he wrote in 1933 . if the brexit trajectory does turn out to be anything like a dual character , and the function of politics .
europeans and americans , israelis , and iranians , egyptians , and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . in fact , the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east ’s road map , was at the center of attention . on an opening night , a senior german minister of government , himself deeply engaged in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects , displaying great sensitivity to israeli and palestinian concerns . the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : a former royalty castle in the rolling hills of taunus soil region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians held annual meetings in the middle east . the novelty this year was the presence of representatives from post-saddam iraq , among them a official from a kurdish regional government like the high command shi'a representative .
the last ten days of ramadan are i “ tikaf ” ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers and spending nights in their mosques and open spaces . and ramadan – now underway – is mobilization-friendly . after sunset , a common program is a common program . last friday cairo was paralyzed , despite an almost-complete lack of coverage through local media outlets . observant muslims gather in sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by the evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including a brief sermon ) , social interactions , qiyam ( another late-night praiam ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers .
as africa ’s preeminent development-finance institution , the african development bank will promote our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , enhancing social-safety nets , and lay the groundwork for a robust economic recovery . in fact , no country or region can always aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along every segments of its population and without giving voice to everyone . with the emerging democratic dispensation , we have partners with whom to engage on governance issues . we are widening our consultations with governments and other actors , and we are collaborating more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and media , as well as with academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and sector-specific associations . as the us finances infrastructure and other projects within the region , it will seek to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas .
even many of the world ’s poorest countries appear to have been joining in long , posting robust growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and raising fiscal revenues . the growing need for measures to correct global imbalances met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why does a winning formula ? ” the fate of the rest of the world depends on the responses to the unfolding financial turmoil . wealth and stock market contraction will , no doubt , dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . while the numbers have never been as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to think , they have diverted attention away from the shaky foundations of newfound prosperity .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could once again become a painful reality of life . owing to its expanding middle class , the region will likely account for about half of the global rise in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three-fifths of the rise of fish consumption between now and 2030 . and , by that point , over 60 % of global demand will come from south and east asia . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and its population is projected to grow to around five billion by 2050 , an increase of more than 900 million people .
syria is a case in point . the situation there , predicted by every pundit around , has metastasized , threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war . the situation there , predicted by every pundit around , has metastasized , threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war . this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage with every issue . but , whether america is engaged or not , it does need a policy .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . on the contrary , the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . everyone , from households to businesses to governments , has a stake in protecting our era of most precious commodity : data . with attackers becoming an increasingly agile and innovative , armed with an increasingly diverse array of weapons , cyber-attacks are occurring at an accelerating pace , and with more sophistication than at any time in the past . the question now is how this will be accomplished .
integrating immigrants makes a lot of sense ; but helping to create sustainable conditions in troubled countries , with the aid of more than a generation of emigrants to transfer the resources first , and then returning on back themselves . in this way , more portugals and irelands can be formed as the wealth of an already prosperous region is sustained . what all this is not the only way forward is when we meet . many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least a more rational debate . viewed from a perspective like this truths provide , a european eastward enlargement is highly desirable not for all , but because it may lead to migration from the new member states to the old .
the costs are miniscule : reaching 80 % of the world ’s 140 million , or so undernourished children will require committed approximately $ 60 million annually , whereas the economic gains over the next century will eventually clear $ 1 billion per year . thus , we know that iron deficiency leads to a combination of cognitive and developmental conditions . providing iron and iodized salt is another top investment , and is a daily increase in an enormous proportion of human consumption . for $ 286 million we could get an iodized salads of flesh and fortified staple food items to nearly 80 % of those in high-affected areas , with benefits that are estimated to total roughly nine-fold that sum . fortifying the “ iron-fisted ” products as little as $ 0.12 per person , a year .
even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with policymakers ’ action . standardization and liberalization in european telecoms underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity during this period , compared to less than 6 % in american gdp . a number of projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , implying that weak short-term demand will have only a limited effect on their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with policymakers ’ action . standardization , and liberalization in european telecoms ( sias ) underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity over this period , compared to more than 6 % in american gdp .
those who believe that it will , typically rely on three arguments , all of which require some qualification . first , they argue that much of the convergence already occurred in manufacturing . indeed , after averaging three percentage points for two decades and rose to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential plummeted to just 2.5 over the past year , and is expected to amount to just 1.5 this year . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low by now . as a result , the growth differential in the emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging group – has declined considerably .
these include high levels of public and private debt , fragile institutions , overregulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet fixes on the part of corporations and banks . in practice , the stifling of new safeguards has introduced a high degree of moral hazard , creating perverse incentives for governments and market actors alike . the status quo in italy should serve as a warning to all of those advocating risk-sharing . under the most recent eurozone reforms , the principle that those who should assume risk should be offset in full joint liability principle , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when crises arise . making matters worse , an sole focus on solidarity implies that the eurozone ’s ’s ’s real problems have receded unaddressed .
but the 2004 revolution also marked a bitter failure for russian president vladimir putin , who attempted to marshal his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv , by backing massive vote manipulation . the hoped-for break with the past did not materialize , as political infighting between the country ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failures gave yanukovych power in free and fair elections , electing putin in 2012 to russia ’s third presidential term . the establishment of the new eurasian union was an essential part of his platform . the failure was a bitterness blow to the kremlin , one that was left out , not forgiven , but forgotten .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 , there were seven years of capital flight . the third cycle of inflows occurred in spain in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , it is now the time for a third “ sudden stop ” ” ” to capital flows to emerging markets . are a few data points , and a biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle hypothesis seriously ? perhaps , were there a few causal theory , which could explain so much periodicity to international capital flows .
they , in turn , would have secured votes for the federal government to assume , relieving states of their starving debts . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than ours are now . jefferson and madison wanted no longer the capital of a country in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to encourage it to enter an area carved out in virginia or maryland . a responsible fiscal state emerged out of the kind that a grand compromise had reached . despite the enormous cost , over half of fledgling government-’s expenditures in early years went to debt service , the economy shook up a depression in 1780 and entered a growth boom .
digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption might generate significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and government institutions . digital id could play a much more expansionary role in how individuals and institutions interact . as we document in a new paper , digital ids have the potential to reduce deception rates , rein in customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen the savings and loan of under-banked shoppers . they also can spur development , by allowing digital talent matching and streamlined employee authentication , resulting in higher labor-market participation , resulting in higher labor-market participation . digital id could play a much more expansionary role in how individuals and institutions interact .
the first revolution of 1917 toppled czar nicholas ii and produced a provisional government headed by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , which turned out to be a transition blip . lenin described kerensky ’s “ balalaika ” as the old order to continue cheating workers and peasants . but the second revolution – which brought lenin and the bolsheviks into power – produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal . if the revolution continues apace , adrift becomes divided into incompetence , disillusionment , predatory witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence . but if the underlying revolution fades , its leaders are unmasquerading as empty windbags .
beneath it is an opportunity to establish a single banking supervisor , combining the comptroller ’s office , the thrift supervision office , and regional feds ’ regulatory functions . this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly about advancing the financial system as a whole without worrying about the implications that individual institutions might have for their business . in a perfect world , one would add in state-owned banking regulators , but i recognize that at this point i have begun trample on the cherished features of america ’s constitution ! at the same time , the crisis has demonstrated that we need this kind of plain talking . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed with a crucial autonomy for its monetary-policy role .
in india , for example , there is a fear that little mom-and-pop retailers will choke off if wal-mart enters the market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect petty retailers without stifling competition . a government can , say , impose zoning regulations , helping small retailers locate specialized niches in the market , or provide on-the-job training to displaced workers . artisanal vendors ’ survival should not be used as a pretext to introduce or uphold business regulations that ultimately protect an incumbent rich . asian policymakers need to remember how they have successfully developed their manufacturing sectors – through competition .
today , ’s crises are no exception ; nor will the next one . toulouse – if history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its penalties with a sadistic twist – it also punishes those who teach of it all too enthusiastically . the postwar system of financial regulation was invented on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . toulouse – when history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its import with a sadistic twist – is that it punishes those who learn from it all too enthusiastically . first , we thought that a key reason not to run banks ’ bad behavior is that depositors panic , not that the main reason depositors panic is that banks risk defaulting on bad loans .
the u.s. congress remains deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs compelling just about the same policies . for china , the biggest prize is a bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . such an accord would be the near-term to xi ’s mind , for it would represent a vote of confidence by the united states in china ’s struggling economy . on a practical level , a us-china bit would commit it to making it easier for chinese actors to invest and operate with american companies and to increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets . but the prospects for doing one are uncertain , at best .
this is particularly interesting , because it fundamentally rejects one of the harshest possible scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . in graphic detail , gore showed how 20-foot sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the ipcc ’s message makes it clear that the exaggerations of that magnitude have no basis in science , however clearly frightened people , and perhaps it would win gore an academy prize . the report also revealed the improbations of another gore scenario : that global warming might push the gulf stream near completion , turned europe into a new siberia . the ipcc says simply and tersely : this scenario , too , vividly depicted in hollywood movie the day after tomorrow , is regarded as “ very unlikely . ”
it is important to note that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus vis-à-vis any particular partner , even as its overall surplus rises . and , though import expo expands rather than decreases , a country ’s overall trade surplus may well have other benefits . for starters , relaxing the import costs will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power and accessing their access to products that can improve the quality of their quality of life . moreover , chinese firms will benefit at a lower cost to foreign-made components and equipment that will boost their overall competitiveness , another channel through which lower import barriers can end up boosting exports . ultimately , as a result of the international import expo will complement china ’s other liberalization measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms .
throughout the west , many people are questioning whether russia will go so far as to continue using its natural gas as a means of imposing economic and political pressure on ukraine , its jurisprudence and its other countries in what the kremlin regards as its own “ ever near abroad . ” from this perspective , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to indicate that an empire of “ new russia ” should be built through purely economic means excluding all forcible actions against other nations . naturally , a crucial role for this model is that it lends itself to post-soviet energy supplies to post-soviet countries . instead , russia ’s policy toward post-soviet countries rests on the doctrine of “ liberal empires , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private corporations should assume control over key economic entities across the former soviet republics , by acquiring their assets . exploiting the “ energy weapon ” is , however , no mere tactic : it lies at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy .
cambridge – the united states congress is close to enacting a sweeping tax reform . most important , the plan ’s provision lowers the corporate-tax rate , from 35 % to 20 % , – from the highest among all oecd countries to one of the lowest in the oecd – and allows us companies to repatriate profits to their foreign subsidiaries , without paying additional american taxes . opponents of the legislation highlight the resulting rise in the federal budget deficit to add $ 1.5 trillion to us treasury debt over the next ten years . i accept budget deficits with a long warning about their hazardous effects . but i am convinced that the economic benefits implied by corporate-tax changes will outweigh any adverse impact on elevated debt levels .
such actions are typically justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , a low-grade currency war . to see why , consider the case for japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to encourage some inflation , and even to correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would respond very soon by injecting liquidity into the bank of japan , prompting the bank of japan to start acting again . we need a group of major economies , call it “ g major ” ; that announcements of monetary policies in a coordinated fashion .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is an observation that in the post-world war ii years ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to 2.5 % under republican control . the gap in economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with gdp disparities a clear above the threshold for some statistical significance . if one goes back further , integrating herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the disparity is even larger . the results look like even if one assigns of responsibility for the first three months , or first few quarters , of a us president ’s term for his predecessor .
it is merely preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same thing . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be the people deciding their own destiny , but the democratic means to do that are being denied it to them are not taken for granted . indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , has now been arrested on the ludicrous charges of being “ inciting crime . ” terms in office have expired for an prosecutor-general , the members of the national electoral commission and a supreme court justices , but no successors named because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition , and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint his officials . a lot would be preposterous to tell ukrainian protesters that face government storm troopers to simply grin , and to bear it , without any external solidarity or support .
classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . yet history suggests that the nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . in the face of large economic crack-ups , internationalism does become precisely the point at issue . yet , history suggests that nationalists do have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . it is easy to see why , and more of it , the state .
london – “ what if it is ‘ will get ’ as good ? ” jack nicholson asks , as he gathers his psychiatrist ’s waiting room in an heponymous movie . at the recent g-20 finance ministers ’ meeting in shanghai , the participants questioned much the same question – and not only with respect to medium-term expectations for weak global growth . many are now wondering whether china ’s current gdp growth rate will be just as good as it will be long in coming . determining the validity of such fears will require understanding for what drives china ’s economic slowdown .
at the same time , the internet is disseminating templates for what a true democracy looks like – instantly and globally – what it should look like . that agenda runs counter to direct conflict with the interests of the global capital , as well as to governments that grew accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . not surprisingly , people are exploiting this technology in ways that imply little interest in being cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , supra-national , or in religious identity . it is a conflict , which , in 2012 , may be expected to heighten dramatically , as protestors ’ agendas , from occupying wall street to occupying moscow , gain further coherence . overwhelmingly , they want simple democracy and economic self-determination .
but three of the european union ’s four largest economies , france , italy , and the united kingdom are all holding large debts and annual deficits that point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . business now fears that rising deficits will lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment . that is a worrying prospect for all of this . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . when interest rates rise , as they surely have to do , the costs of servicing debts will require higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity .
the economy ’s fastest-growing industries since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely classified as “ service industries , ” ” ” ” often involving disseminating information and entertainment – activities in which jews were particularly prominent , from publishing to vaudeville and writing to commercial sports . they have pioneered new retail institutions , from department shops to box stores . they have also tended to do disproportionately well in learned occupations – such as medicine , law , and accounting – which are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fact that jews were long a minority topic of discrimination is sometimes given as a reason to devote themselves to commerce , finance , and occupations . yet not all minorities long subject themselves to discrimination is necessarily succeeding under conditions of market competition .
so far , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . to help scale up development and finance sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework , developed by the one planet laboratory working group on financing for sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . initially , vert-infra covers four subsectors of sustainable infrastructure operations : energy , energy storage , transportation , and buildings , with a special emphasis on projects in urban areas . crowding in private capital will therefore be key to closing the sdgs ’ investment gap . the framework , called “ vision for an ecologically responsible transition – that is , infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) – aims to help unlock project pipelines and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door for large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide .
today , in the aftermath of the world financial and economic crisis ( and contrary to 2001 ) , america appears crucially weakened . moreover , the new superpowers , with their own self-interest , namely , china and india , have come down on the international scene . without the us backing china and india , american policy in the middle east can no longer succeed ; on the contrary , such support is given only a halfway heartedly – if at all . a success for american policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , with europe neither inclined nor able to contribute to substantial support . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crisis , and conflict , iran 's nuclear aspirations appear like a ticking time bomb , and a variety of new dynamite are spilling over across the region .
true , a new economy hit tough on those who sit on their back and live to the behest of stockholders or taxpayer . true , it gives the chance to energetic people formerly onto the sidelines . but this , too , is no longer the story of the us . in fact , creative destruction ( intensified by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . skeptics keep arguing that competition and technology wreak havoc on society ’s harmony ; that they generate inequality and eviscerate the middle class .
a further step in the reevaluation of cancer screening came last year , when health-care researchers at the dartmouth institute announced that the costs of breast-cancer screening were often minimized , and that the benefits were far exaggerated . indeed , even mammogram ( nearly 40 million of them annually in the us ) that detects cancer does not necessarily save lives , does not necessarily save lives . dartmouth researchers found that , in an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us , the test did not help 120,000-13,000-134,000 of afflicted women . cancers were either growing so slowly that they did not pose a problem , or they would be treated successfully had they been detected clinically ( or became aggressive enough to make little treatment ) . chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer received similar , if lower , criticism .
a new study argues that there is now a 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , raising an additional 80 % chance that it will reach the country ’s 9.6-12.3 billion people by 2100 . sub-saharan africa – the region ’s persistently poorest region – will be the main engine of demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this engine : improve women ’s access to modern contraception . this is important , because rising populations can be an even larger problem than previously thought . providing contraception for an additional 215 million women worldwide , a significant proportion of them in africa , who want to avoid a pregnancy would cost about $ 3.6 trillion annually .
contrary to the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement does not drives the current conflict . by contrast to the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement does not drives the current conflict . in fact , the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . state-owned enterprises should be free to bid , too , but should receive no favors . this is a struggle for power , not for economic justice or better life .
this was true even during the cold war and remains true today , yet mccain does not seem to recognize it . on russia since its invasion of georgia , obama , and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of the us congress to visit georgia following the invasion ) , emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia by actions like expelling it from the g8 . such measures can ultimately be necessary , but they will not help georgia survive as an independent democracy . furthermore , even after outrage in georgian , issues of a shared common interest are open to issues such as energy , climate change , and iran – on which the west and the kremlin need to cooperate – exist .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
central authority is being gradually eroding as the country continues a splinter into ethnic and sectarian regions , with the de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . the south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectories toward independence , dragging yemen into yet another secession struggle almost 25 years after a country with a fragile unification . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority . likewise , whereas the east is ruled by an benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to an informal government in tripoli . in yemen , meanwhile , an adequate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts a few seemingly intractable problems , from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a failed economy .
london – in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had a vital responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically vital banks and to stimulate economic growth . but that consensus proved short-lived , and soon public sectors ’ economic interventions came to be viewed as the root causes of the crisis , and thus need to be reversed . that turned out to be the grave error to have been the solution . in europe , specifically , governments were lambasted for their high debts , even when private debt , rather than public borrowing , caused the collapse . many were tasked with introducing austerity , rather than spurring growth with counter-cyclical policies .
at pasok , the greek-turkish socialist party , which i take the lead , is imposing far-reaching reforms in this direction . likewise , the goal of a socialist international is a world governed not by free markets but by free human beings . this means welcoming migrants and insecure minorities , creating more opportunity for women and disabled , and empowering their citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them the power to decide and the knowledge they need to decide well . we must fight exclusion from our own political parties , just as we fight the exclusion within our societies .
after all , unlike europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . at the same time , the banking and household sectors of the eu have made some headway in deleveraging . in sharp contrast to europe , shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage in manufacturing overall , as well as in petrochemicals , in particular . in fact , quantitative easing has boosted asset values in the us . indeed , the euro could destroy the eu completely .
even when the chinese feel incensed by foreign interference and domination , many , too , have come to admire america for its democracy , its openness , energy , and its willingness to assimilate . yet , by mid o’70s – when i traveled to china during the cultural revolution – hardly any public surface was emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and his running dogs . ” this divided attitude meant that china has tended to respond in ways that are impassioned and unpredictable , especially when its pride has been piqued . nothing has been more repugnant to china ’s new nationalists than to the vision of a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . nothing provoked a more muscular response after mao ’s arrival in power than a dehumanizing prospect of feeling unable to defy foreign predation .
third , we are facing steeply rising fossil-fuel prices , as developing countries ’ growth is driven by demand and conventional supply of coal , oil , and gas are being depleted . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution holds lots of hype – similar to past gold booms and past stock bubbles . moreover , shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional ones do . and they are environmentally dirty , in a sustainable way . sure , we may well try to identify more fossil fuels , but at a much higher cost and vastly higher environmental risk away from industrial spills , wasting products , releases , and other damage .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is a bit more than a month away ; yet already the campaign appears with us forever , rolling implacably forward , with little evidence of any genuine excitement – or even significant – movement on the polls . the support of the two major contenders – the labour party and the ruling conservative party , respectively – appears stuck in low to-mid 30s . the conservatives hope that the government ’s track record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to break in their favor , late in the campaign . may or may they be right ; they deserve to be , so they want to be , and they can not be . in may , labour seems hoping for who-knows-what to turn the tide , while keeping their collective fingers crossed that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party threatens to sweep the council .
the second insight from the psychological research summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . is this really an american tradition not to be concerned with what happens to others ? former us president george w. bush , for example , may choose to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for a variety of reasons : a strategic advantage , a humanitarian concern , and even a competition with his or her father . recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for a range of decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously wrong . most have not included weapons of mass destruction , but the majority .
fiscal restraint , as reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth , is also important . protecting property rights , from civil and political liberties , protections from arbitrary violence are among a few important factors in encouraging economic growth . geographic location matters as well , because anything like distance from markets , poor climates , and poor soil impedes developing countries ’ economic growth . but this produces open trade policies all the more critical , for they are arguably the best tools at their disposal to compensate for the bad cards that nature occasionally deals in . other factors besides trade policy also matter .
durham , north carolina – my day begins with a coffee city cup and ending with a heavy chocolate bar . a nebulous color orchid enlivens of my study and , through that window , i seize a glimpse of my green garden by many of us . but the very biodiversity on which all of us depend is being under threat as human activity devastates forests and other plant-rich habitats . in between , i consume a wide variety of food and pharmaceuticals , including my daily 81 major mg of aspirin . in short , my own life – like everybody ’s – is enabled , enriched , and extended by a wide variety of plants and their derivatives .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has repeated so many times over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane if it were not that dangerous . the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts toward israel to stop settlement activity in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then gather even more power to expand onto more palestinian lands , build more exclusively jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes ahead of the so-called “ freeze ” came into effect . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a jew , while that is happening . in the end , the world ’s pressure subsides , and the freezing does not necessarily materialize .
san francisco -- there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to maintain “ stable prices ” when enunciated in the federal reserve act , and the fed ’s self-chosen target of 2 % annual inflation . the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : the bundle of goods will cost the equivalent of 10 , 50 , or even 100 years from now . by contrast , when a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , those same goods that $ 100 can buy today will cost a $ 122 per year at the end of the decade . so how is policymakers supposed to replace the latter ? the price tag would be a whopping $ 724 after 100 years .
as a liberal myself , i share those values , but recognize that insisting on them is ultimately undermining migrants ’ interests . skills-biased immigration begets a similar dilemma . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest groups of migrants ; it also leads to some brain drain away from countries in need of highly skilled workers . but , again , one must examine the trade-off . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces win ground across europe , one must ask whether newcomers desperate for a job are better served by being admitted on conditional terms ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) , or by no means admitted at all .
instead , the reforms decreed a high degree above , with no grassroots support – and therefore no lasting durability . such a direct method is at the wellspring of authoritarianism . we need to recognize that and understand that it emerges not just when a apathetic or public is frightened , but also when no apparent stable advanced guard is found , like the powerful political parties that elect and check leaders . all of us had direct appeals to the street and the masses , rather than encouragement , of a genuine social consensus . as a result , russia now confronts the situation where the presidential election is the only political question .
during the french student protests in 2006 , france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare unfavorably with rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , the us , and germany , respectively . but , while europe ’s youth unemployment rate has risen steadily since 2009 , its ratio has remained the same ( albeit both well above the pre-2008 level ) . likewise , greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gdp is 49.3 % , but its ratio is still only 13 % . and its eurozone-wide rate of 20.8 % far exceeds its 8.7 % ratio . to be sure , a youth-unemployment ratio , at 13 % , is not a grounds for complacency .
this connection could be direct , provided the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or indirect , should the international monetary fund ’s ’s unit of account , the special drawing rights , become favored reserve managers ’ asset , as the renminbi is now in the basket of sdr currencies . alternatively , china could eventually become a new supplier of reserve assets . but there is a third possibility : global demand for american reserve assets can subside . reserve status for the sdr puts its long-held imf ambition , although the idea has never gained much traction . in this scenario , lending to the reserve asset would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including by reducing the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and boost military spending , and america appears likely to confront rising fiscal deficits and enormous short-term demand growth . with america ’s economy already operating at close to full capacity ( with unemployment at less than 5 % ) , bigger imports , and a stronger us dollar , meeting that boost demand , will be necessary . all of this will bode well for a eurozone economy for which the us remains the leading export market . but it is the peripheral countries that will most likely benefit .
princeton – for the past century , economic-policy debate has been locked in orbit around the respective roles and virtue of the state and market . does the market wield charge when a market does not performing the socially necessary function – for example , fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? this old debate lies at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . the same question is dividing american politics into november ’s presidential and congressional elections . does the market wield state control , in the sense that it sets limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ?
indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own ; and that brexit would hurt europeans far more than it hurts britons . british negotiators would then respond to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory by attempting to make the process all the more painful for the rest of the eu . that means the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own self-fulfilling prophecy . a second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain simply can not start beating europeans at their own game by reviving its automobile industry or making its own wine to rival french and italian manufacturers .
the excessive domestic demand that underlay this evolution is gone now , permanently . but , on its own , a stimulus is not the answer , either . otherwise , this slippage in domestic demand would reassert itself once the stimulus ended . when household sector deleveraging is complete , domestic spending can rebound , but the saving rate will not , and should not , fall back on zero . fiscal stimulus , in the backdeficit-reduction effort , may help tide the economy above , while structural adjustment and expansion of competitiveness within the tradable sector go forward .
the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran underlines not only putin ’s famous pragmatism , but his sophistication and adroitness of his policies . if the american-led war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now is from a narrow standpoint of russian interests , while the resulting confrontation will present problems for america and its traditional allies , rather than for russia . so america ’s objective of regime change in baghdad does not look too wrong either too wrong , although its support can not be openly promoted . for president vladimir putin ’s thinking makes it more sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , not least for now , and to be repaid later for his help silence on the basis of american influence in the successor iraqi regime ’s repayment concerning the country ’s russian debts . this contrast reflects a vital distinction between iran , an historic state of nation states , and the level of artificial creation that is under iraqi .
a majority of kosovars will find talks to serbia about improved relations difficult unless serbia is undergoing some sort of “ de-nazification ” process . to be sure , how much milosevic has exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians were genuinely popular among serbs . kosovo ’s skepticism about serbia ’s democratic credentials is derived first and foremost from the recognition that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not founded on a single man . president kostunica ’s refusal , therefore , to even discuss putting internationally indicted war criminals on trial is not an hopeful person here in hungary . indeed , throughout yugoslavia ’s wars in bosnia , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then an opposition took part .
in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi not to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – as did another suspected , lamin fhima , who was later acquitted – faced with the scottish tribunal in cambridge zeist in holland . but there has never been conclusive proof that megrahi was engaged in lockerbie ’s bombing . in fact , most experts still believe that he was convicted through fraudulent evidence and cia bribed witnesses . furthermore , libya has formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims of ’ weapons of mass destruction , and abandoning its weapons of mass destruction schemes . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hopes for a warmer embrace from western leaders ( and the flood of investment ) , the relationship has remained beset by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
this experience has motivated it to establish his dangote academy , a center for talent development that aims to help fill the industrial-skill gap in nigeria and beyond . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and fostering enhanced prosperity . without them , the continent has far more to experience rising unemployment , widening inequalities , social dysfunction , and , ultimately , conflict and disorder . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens – more than either india or china . with the right education , skills , and jobs , this immense workforce could deliver rapid and sustainable economic growth for the entire region .
violence against women in afghanistan persists , for a variety of reasons . first , the country has inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes women ’s religious inferiority . women are thus deprived of their basic rights and freedoms . second , there is a powerful political incentive to deprive women of their rights . the husband of another young woman , aisha , cut off her nose and ears as she fled .
during greece ’s period of admission to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . both inflation and fiscal deficits fell precipitously ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government imposed an ambitious liberalizing bailout package . annual gdp growth slumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 – and remains around that level until 2007 . but entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was intended to induce the turkish political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as rising productivity and enhanced competitiveness . initially , events played out according to schedule .
in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined a clean-arctic alliance to launch an arctic commitment . momentum toward hfo phase-out , in the arctic , is being built . the danish shipowners ’ association and arctic expeditionary crews are just two players calling for tighter regulation or outright prohibition . other shipping firms have stressed the need for regulation to keep a level playing field playing field . europe , for its part , has already supported such a move .
in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders that i met ; the other two , former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell , are also either africa or african-american , . and his gift of motivating peoples was illegitimate ; indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination by a powerful legacy . there has been no great figure in africa since the death of south african president nelson mandela in pooling the courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . john f. kennedy was a fearsome for both , and a good thing . he has done one great deal : resolving the cuban missile crisis .
sanibel – the resumption of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states unlocks new prospects for israel ’s economy . there was much steps , including the removal of america ’s trade embargo by helms-burton act , adopted last summer by the us congress in 1996 . but reconstruction of cuba ’s membership at the international monetary fund offers a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 original members ; cuba was a member of the european union . it was engaged much of the tentative planning for the 1944 bretton woods conference , and it had active delegation there .
and many excellent political leaders , – such as in george washington and dwight eisenhower , among american presidents – have not shown intellectuals . it goes without saying that academic or technological expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure government officials ’ success . indeed , a lot of my harvard colleagues would make dreadful policymakers , owing to the lack of managerial , managerial , or to any different interpersonal skills . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers , when traditional politicians became discredited or party politics deadlocked . moreover , they possess the credibility that comes with a lack of appetite to win back , either because their term in office was constrained in advance , or because they are known to prefer quiet academic life to a large degree .
following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which devastated coastlines of 11 countries ’ coastlines , resulting in over 150,000 deaths , a half-million injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages , as well as 168 billion governments agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive , ten-year disaster risk reduction plan . today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vital to accommodate the expanding global population – has been achieved without adequate regard for disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that no such thing as a natural disaster is possible ; the catastrophic impact of natural hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , or hospitals . in the absence of comprehensive efforts to protect these new economic assets , we will expect disaster-related costs to skyrocket in the coming decades . in this sense , a climate-change prediction should prompt policymakers and business leaders to re-calibrate their perceptions of exposure and disaster risk .
while that event did n’t live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for a “ clear direction ” to enhance nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) by 2020 delivered a platform with a new generation of climate and nature advocacy . fortunately , this may be beginning to change . two years ago , researchers from nature conservancy and its partners issued new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to combating climate change . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently in the un climate week in new york city . although this event did n’t live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps toward enhance nationally determined contributions ” by 2020 , ” ” it offered a platform for a new generation of climate and nature advocates .
indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the iran nuclear deal will remain unchanged . to ensure that iran keeps progressing toward international engagement , thereby shielding the nuclear deal that trump is not bent on defending trump ’s administration will need to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , he will need to adopt a more constructive position toward the syrian conflict , thereby making it clear that iran is not spearheading the shia liberation movement . but trump will not make this easy for rouhani . just weeks ago , in august , the us administration was forced to concede that rouhani is fulfilling his part of the nuclear deal .
in fact , the mainstream independent media do n’t even report the inconsistencies in greece for fear of provoking a government or an gülen network . ludicrous cases go further , and more people are being dragged into them . these cases will ultimately collapse under the weight of their collective exigencies . but the damage has done far beyond the anguish of hundreds of innocent individuals locked in under a spurious pretenses . the hope turkey is finally to shedding its authoritarian vestiges , and to become a stable democracy lies in tatters .
but russia is unlikely to draw on this emergency credit line in the current crisis . likewise , in july , the brics crafted a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would , it was argued , “ forestall short-term balance-of-payments pressures , provide reciprocal support , and advance financial stability . ” more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi pledged assistance to russia . but his ambiguous language reflected larger hesitation that will probably persist until the crisis is winding down . in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ already-fledgling institutions have turned against russia .
they will also try to reduce japan ’s dependence on exports , and to rethink sending production facilities to lower-wage countries . the economic impact of domestic politics in the us , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more collaborative congress , politics will mute policy responses , rather than fuel greater activism . continued congressional polarization would sustain policy uncertainty , take the form of debt and deficit negotiations , and hinder the country ’s economic growth . from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls of us labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep us economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would also eat away at potential output . in other countries , the causation runs primarily from economics and politics .
paris – the riots that rampaging across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodates either the european union or the modern economy . that the traditional left is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis that is more than strange . to varying degrees is paralyzing socialist parties across europe . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray – as are germany ’s social democrats , despite being a part of the ruling grand coalition . that the traditional left party is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis ; instead of thriving on renewed doubts about capitalism , europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s socialist parties failed to make any serious political inroads .
the reaction to 9/11 , and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with african chambermaid in the new york hotel , has very little in common , save for one thing : once again , the cultural conflict has been mired in deceit . the french , he alleged , come from latin culture a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . whatever happened between former management director of the international monetary fund and its accusers , the fact that he has been arrested , and paraded ahead of the press , as criminal suspects , was widely criticized in france . one kind of allegation , made most recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was a typical american puritanism . they are more tolerant of human frailties and had a more refined appreciation of the art of seduction .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
yet , caught up in the sights of a barrel gun , nobody can not – not even the courageous men and women who camped in their hundreds of thousands in the snowy snow before ukraine ’s parliament , know with certainty whether those changes wrenched ukrainians from their grip on fear and apathy . the success of their defiance indicates the power to think wilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for one ’s own fate into one of his own hands . nobody ever doubted that ukraine has changed a great deal in its twelve years of independence . self-confidence among governing and prudence among rulers : these are the psychic springs of democracy and true freedom , and can never be diverted again in our own homeland . in the end , they have every reason to feel proud .
furthermore , netanyahu ’s own unsentimental assessment of the middle east does not align with that of the obama administration , in thrall to its collapsing romanticians with moderate islamists and their devoted supporters among jewish americans . while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir have been reluctant to lecturing , they lacked all of their strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts to compromise disconcerts , concealing , and often enrages americans . his tireless disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , security demands , red lines , and jewish history are compensated only through conciliatory talk tough negotiations over reopening negotiations , which instantly dismiss the reason that palestinians , like putin , fear a weakness . israeli prime ministers supposedly emerge in two varieties : heavily accented eastern european men and grizzled military officers talking a good game before acquiescing to most american or international demands for concessions , the talks , and aids .
his charisma failed to predict defeat ; the change in followers ’ needs did . in practice , charisma is an ambiguous synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” the british public , for example , did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but , one year later , his own vision , trust , and communications skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxiety in the aftermath of france ’s fall and the dunkirk evacuees . and then , in 1945 , after the public ’s focus became clear from winning the war to constructing a welfare state , churchill voted out of office . followers account for more charisma to leaders when they felt a powerful need for change , often at the root of a personal , organizational , or social crisis .
at the same time , the government secured an eu-wide agreement that – rather than downgrading the size of the european commission – would be allowed to keep ireland from holding a permanent seat on the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space to conduct the more effective referendum campaign . this combination of legal guarantees and altered economic circumstances helps it mobilize majorities in the treaty ’s favor . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks show that a yes side commands a strong majority , from 62 % to 23 % , with as much as 15 % of the electorate gone . but the picture is far from clear-cut .
to this end , in an upcoming paper , which i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we propose that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security be given the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . a decision to reject mergers or grant investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . the solution is not to meddle with rules of competition ; rather , giving those in charge of security some say in the decision-making process is essential . already , eu member states possess such practices , and so should the eu . finally , the eu needs to do more to develop its financial toolkit , and to promote international use of europe .
ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . a newly passed bill , clearly targeting israeli arabs in the knesset ( parliament ) , would enable mks to be dismissed for disloyalty in a state . whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it did not punish israel for its occupation of palestinian lands . for israel , a democracy was always a strategic asset , because a democratic israel was a natural fit in a western alliance . but the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , the poorer one will become its links to its western strategic rearguard .
mr romano prodi , president of the eu commission and italy 's former prime minister , responded to president bush 's most recent statements by saying that if one wants to become a world leader in his business , one must know how to look after the whole earth , rather than just american industry . but the issue here is not only one for those aspiring to be world leaders . in kosovo , restricting intervention to aerial bombardments has made this strategy a whole success : nato forces suffered not a single casualty in the fight , but some 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians have been killed . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their citizens ' interests , and to what extent should concern the welfare of the people everywhere ? this approach to the responsibilities of a national leader , put in place bluntly and candidly , us forces aimed at considering a fundamental ethical question .
indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a potential tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring truce – and accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk sizeable policy autonomy – allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s border . on both these fronts , the eu , lacking a strategic vision , has created the impression that europe is repeatedly snuffed out by russian president vladimir putin . in europe , the kremlin has been able to follow through on its successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly in view of hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . ukraine has increasingly appeared to be locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – its foreign-policy specialty . moreover , the delayed implementation of the key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine offers clear evidence that , nowadays , it calls for russia to dictates eu-ukrainian engagement terms .
when , then , was the last time that actually happened ? with the weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everybody laments america ’s ’s spendthrift habits . thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the largest headache of any developing country ’s finance minister nowadays is attempting to keep his or her country ’s currency from sliding too fast against the dollar . chronic debt-crisis countries , from mexico to russia to south korea , all are battling capital inflows from investors seeking an exit as the dollar collapses . but has this ever occurred to anybody else how hard america needs to work to ensure that everyone else looks good ?
new york – hurricane harvard has left its abatrein in lives and tremendous wealth damage estimated by some at $ 150-180 billion . of course , it is ironic that an event such as that would occur at a state that is home to so many climate-change localities , and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel industry that is driving global warming . but the rains to inundated texas coastlines for better parts of the week , and a hurricane that is poised to hit south florida also raises deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics . to be sure , no single climate event can play directly into the long-term impact of increased greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but scientists have long predicted that such increases would boost not just average temperatures , but weather patterns as well as show of extreme events like hurricane harvey .
by aligning europe with the means of production together , first through the euro-atlantic coal and steel community , and later through the common market and europe , the eu hoped to bind european states together so closely that a war between the two would no longer be an option . pro-europeans need to associate themselves with the sources of discontent and rethink forms that have been used to voice the european ideal . the eu was founded on a mechanical idea that interdependence reduces conflict . rather than banding together , each new challenge split the eu into an ever-smaller group . europe split the east and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis divided eastern and west .
in nigeria today , a key question nowadays is not whether president ollanta obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is , real progress is being made . government and business activity practically ground to a halt this spring , as democracy activists , working with politicians and legislators alike , opposed to a third term , battled obasanjo ’s ally to thwart the proposed bill . attempts by obasanjo ’s followers to organize the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to resume his term in office beyond two levels met a firm wall of opposition . sadly , this is not necessarily the job of the president .
he regards the three leading theories of what we take to do , one deriving from kant ; one from the social-contract tradition of hobbes ; locke , rousseau ; and contemporary philosophers , john rawls and t.m. scanlon ; and one of bentham ’s utilitarianism , and one of bentham ’s utilitarianism , maintain that kantian and social-contract theories must be revised to indefensible . if parfit is right , there is far less disagreement among apparently conflicting moral theories than we all have thought . defenders of each of these theories are in parfit a vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountaineering ” on different sides . parfit ’s reaction to this line of argument is leading him to make claims that are perhaps even bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with some form of consequentialism , which is theories in the same broad family as utilitarianism .
rather than csr , it is supposed to be psr ( a personal measure of social responsibility ) . one can also argue that psr on the grounds that demands csr will become the practice of “ passing the buck ” – – – evading personal accountability to do good . with the rise of the us corporate enterprise corporation , large family-owned firms have generally gone . but this does not mean that a us firm is the right entity to engage in altruism , though its various stakeholders apparently can spend any portion of the income that they earn from the company and other sources in altruistic ways . this is the flip side of blaming us corporations for all from obesity to the scalding of a spilled into coffee – both attributable to lawsuits in recent years .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia on may one day saw the region ’s most significant visit by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . kissinger ’s mission triggered a major revolution in us diplomatic terms . renewal of japanese relations shifted the global balance of power into the cold war ’s height , and was preparing the way for china to open up its economy , a decision that , more than any other , defined today ’s world . what clinton did and said during her asian tour will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the start of a distinct new phase in that epoch . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america is reluctant to tolerate china ’s push for regional hegemony .
china ’s demand is growing not just because incomes are rising , but as incomes rise , its composition is shifting to more sophisticated goods and services . rising chinese incomes are also providing structural change for china , as continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value activity . technology and knowledge will remain important , but , beyond absorbing western tools and skills . this represents a major opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their trend toward growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for convenience parts of evolving supply chains . consequently , china ’s ai role is changing : once the west is ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customers for western products .
but under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring a status quo , or incremental change , for it tends to wound up paying the extra . for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial france ’s post-imperial inferiority complex , the symptoms that – whether by brexit or putinism , hinder europe ’s normalization , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms . yet his recent actions seem to be reproducing them . historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains .
at the same time , they are failing to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected for an independent economic policy to work . dublin – europe ’s needs , and europeans ’ aspirations are at odds . at a time when strong , coordinated action is required to de-emphasize the financial meltdown of europe , the popular backing that has drove european integration over the past six decades is waning . this failure is rooted in electoral politics of ’ confinement in individual eu countries , which forces policymakers to pretend that they can address economic issues with national policies alone . after nearly 70 years of calm , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity has been so important , indulging nationalist sentiment , without regard for its potential consequences .
for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of an argument . for another , it is still too early to judge the merits of an argument . a full assessment of the war in iraq , and its impact on the middle east , will take quite a decade or more . clearly , the june 2005 elections a positive one was heading for the region . the skeptics have a point , but they are going too far .
it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies some of an unshakable destiny . as thomas mann once wrote : “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought in their “ return to europe ” ” ” to their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , their mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought the lesson that moves from a closed society to an open one is both achievable and extremely difficult . freedom changes frames and substance of the choice , as well as individual and collective responsibility .
cambridge – major tax reform has been high on an agenda for the united states in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for it for years , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal income are taxed . with a republican majority in both the senate and a republican president in the white house , such plans may provide the basis for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is especially significant . i believe that it will have highly favorable effects on business investment , raise productivity , and overall economic growth .
palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of opposition leaders in germany , viewed the cold war as primarily a conflict between liberty and tyranny . palme 's major speech mentioned " détente , " trust , " and " friendship " , but never " freedom . this alliance between the two sides resulted in grave distortions in fundamental western values . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there or the wall of berlin . instead , palme praised east germany 's leader , gerich honecker , underscoring both shared goals and a mutual struggle for peace and development .
a different type of revolution took place in europe ’s former colonies , in asia , where the native inhabitants of the people had no appetite for rule once more of the western powers that had enjoyed so ignominiously defeated japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted their freedom , too . the un , like its dream of european unity , was also part of its 1945 consensus . for a brief , many prominent people , albert einstein , for one , believed that only a world government would ensure global peace . these aspirations were frequently voiced at the united nations founded in 1945 .
moreover , what little action was taken was to shoring up the financial system . guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and allowing banks to take on even more leveraging , was not surprised that the administration was stating from one policy to the next , every strategy , backed by absolute conviction , up to minutes before it was abandoned for another . but the financial crisis is just one part of a few crises facing the country : its underlying macroeconomic problem made matters worse by its sinking fortunes on the bottom half of the population . even if trust did indeed exist , those economies would pour out . those who would spend no money ; those with money are n’t spending it .
the policy dilemmas that resulted from rising inequality , more volatility , declining room to manage the real economy will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the intervening decades ahead . amid the foreign-capital bonanza that stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods offer a particularly powerful danger signal that no amount of government is mythmaking it should be allowed override . officials face a straightforward choice : maintain robust prudential controls on capital inflows , or are prepared to invest a large stock of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves . it is true , but unhelpful , to claim only that governments have merely themselves to blame for having rushed recklessly into this wild ride . the deeper problem lies with the global economy ’s excessive financialization , which has arisen ever since the 1990s .
foreign and energy ministries will have an opportunity to reinforce a global nuclear security framework when they come together at the international nuclear security conference : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event , which is open to all countries . at the agenda should be ratifying the improvements to a critical nuclear-security apparatus , second vention of physical protection by nuclear material . even relatively small amounts of material , like cobalt-60 , used in radiotherapy , could do serious harm if combined with conventional explosives in a so-called “ dirty bomb ” ( or otherwise intentionally used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect their nuclear material when it is being used or stockpiled , not only when it is being shipped internationally , as is the case now .
on the political side , however , both countries were not equitably shared . this time around , the initiative came out in singh , who was invited by his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali near new delhi to watch the two countries play the semi-final final in the cricket world cup . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , the process , rather than the protocol , will determine how the bilateral relations move ahead . of the troika that currently governs pakistan , the president , prime minister , and the military ’s chief of staff – it is the prime minister that is carrying the least full authority . the match played out on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly .
indonesia argues that a people ’s right to control all locally discovered information is to be protected , via the same mechanisms that the un ’s food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ poor countries for ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao seed accord , a nation is able to register plants , share its seeds , and derive the profits from the resultant products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices that sometimes enable supranational corporations and wealthy governments to capture outrageous returns from indigenous agriculture . if the concept of viral sovereignty were applied to hiv just 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these same scientists are allowing drugs and vaccines against all sorts of distinct strains of a virus that causes aids . so far , it is dangerous folly to extend this policy to viruses .
in the last decade , italy ’s share of global exports has fallen from 3.9 % to 2.9 % . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest of the oecd . as a result , unit labor costs have grown faster than real gdp and employment in the region since 2001 undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries . a new government ’s greatest challenge will be to implement the reforms that enable italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors , after years of poor policies and neglect . this , in turn , requires increased investment in innovation and human capital .
but , of course , technical ability is not the only – or even the main – issue . conflicting motivations are probably a more important reason why citizens increasingly mistrust experts . in fact , there is a misconception at work . policy wonks thinking of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens reasonably fear that the amazum in question may be in thrall to a particular ideology or methodology ; that advice may be politically motivated ; or that advisers may tailor their attorney to their own career concerns ( how to get that plum up wall street ’s work after it leaves government , for example ) .
whichever party combination comes out at the top -- and helmut kohl ’s coalition still needs to be seen as a narrow favorite one to enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major program of unlikely support from its political opponents . germany thus seems destined to be stuck in the doldrums for some time . in france , the cost for inaction is considerable . disillusionment with politics increases , and perhaps even brings the right-wing populists that democratic germany has so far been spared . while exports are thriving , unemployment remains stubbornly high , at best .
europe ’s status as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with close to 40 % of all international commerce and a rising european importance , crisis notwithstanding – as the us reserve currency , mean that the eu , just like america at the time , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . the difference is that america acts decisively and the eu does not . europe occupies , of course , the moral high ground that america has mostly vacated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . europe ’s leadership on issues such as climate change and development aid could , if well managed , constitute the basis of a new moral authority . yet there is little sign that governments can seize this opportunity .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and its fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is on the path toward surrendering david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , strived to combine the country ’s ’s ’s ’s jewish character with democracy . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to us american interests elsewhere in the world . following his targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , which strived to combine the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s jewish character with democracy .
in many member states , the ecj ’s rulings have generated resistance , particularly on the left , with trade unions and social movements targeting the court ’s purported zeal in siding with business over the interests of workers . in spain 2008 , for example , former president , roman herzog , published a polemic entitled “ stopping the ecj ! ” he indicted luxembourg ’s judges for grabbing ever-greater competences to member countries , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate a few controversial ecj ’s rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated throughout europe , where , for some time , substantial disquiet over alleged judicial activism ” and what some viewed as an irreversible trend toward the empowerment of ecj and other eu institutions . such arguments were deployed successfully during the june 2005 referenda on the european constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , as well as in ireland during the lisbon treaty referendum .
that means shifting the focus from backward labor-market policies , which seeks to protect workers in existing occupations , to future-oriented measures , like innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . here , a few proposals have already put forward progress , including a universal basic income – currently piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions like ontario , canada ; a disruptive income tax ; and various forms of portable social-security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example . at the same time , countries need to make it easier for workers to make up for job changes through reforms in their labor markets and social-safety nets . moreover , the social contract – based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships – will need to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health care becoming more portable and adjusted to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding gig economy .
according to caslen , “ the us in the pentagon is behind our adversaries in the use of communication – either to recruit or train . ” in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks , a good deal of sympathy and understanding has been around the world for america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s military response to the taliban . the us is also failing in the application of soft power . as guy robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy managing director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ we are not killing it faster than it ’s advanced . ” the manner in which us military power is also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio .
our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy consumption , and a cleaner environment . yet this is not what has happened that time . the key to a clean future is clean-tech , the costs of which have been falling steadily as well , and will continue doing so . air , soil , and water pollution have been on the rise , resulting in hundreds of thousands of deaths each year from them . sometimes , these technologies will pay for themselves , and their consumption will be adopted .
at the same time , the private sector is bringing innovations to a classroom . for example , some providers develop teaching models , in which students can watch teacher-created boin-class videos to determine that precious teacher-student face time , so that they can focus on interacting rather than lecturing . similarly , skilled teachers are now free to deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at a time when they are hundreds of miles away . as a result , students in places where schools have yet to build , or too few qualified teachers , can still obtain an education . after all , a good teacher lecture – even if it is shown above the internet – is preferable to face time with untrained adults .
so far , the obama administration has shifted against chinese exports of tires and steel pipes , but ’s this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . in recent years , the chinese government has been investing heavily in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national champions , ” ” ” ” ” ” mainly in order to ensure that china ’s gains from us power in markets , while the leadership controls as much of the spoils as possible . in order to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government has often favors them at the expense of its foreign competitors . far from playing the scapegoat , china ’s leaders will use surging national pride to bolster their position and reinforce their hand in the negotiations . with the us congress taking the discussion over climate change , for example , and some legislators have called for a cap-and-trade system , others will demand that america accept binding limits on emissions , while denying the chinese .
but , faced with the possibility that low inflation today can be caused by persistent supply shocks , they , too , are unwilling to ease more now . alternatively , they will have to sustain for much longer on their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , an approach with which most central banks ( with a possible exception in the bank of japan ) are uncomfortable . so , although central banks remain unwilling to relinquish their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong their timeline to reach it , as they already have done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation can remain low for longer . this central bank ’s patience risks de-anchoring inflationary expectations . but going on for a long time with unconventional monetary policies also carries risks of undesirable asset-price disinflation , excessive credit expansion , and bubbles .
to reach agreement on a level and influence like that , world leaders – particularly in america and china – would need to come under similarly high pressure . what would persuade chinese leaders that they must move quickly to reinforce an open , global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? one such catalyst might be financial crises emanating from a country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a global pact would need to be urgent , rather than an appealing possibility . a contest for global leadership might serve this purpose well .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of delaying tactics by the british and french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as sarkozy ’s president that most frenchmen are rejecting ; it is his essence . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by fear of the future , the french need a reassuring father or a mothers figure , not a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics , and france is both a proud tradition that every citizen is entitled to equal treatment under the law . for , while a majority of french today might prefer to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there can be no assurance that they will re-election him in 2012 . in fanning the vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he will dishonor first , and then defeat .
millions end up in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain when it can return home . millions end up with protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain when they could return home . with canada alone claiming that it will reresettle 50,000 syrian refugees later this year , the target is achievable . at the same time , the international community must encourage private-sector integration of refugees in the major host countries , such as turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , such countries receive just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee required annually to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during displacement ’s first few years .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among undercastes ) are now politically assertive . true , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming extremely salient issues in looming national elections . yet for both countries , a certain amount of social inequalities has been on decline for decades . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gone on forever .
production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany . yet , with unemployment continuing to rise in the heavily indebted southern countries of greece , output continues to lag behind germany and the other northern european countries . indeed , there is a huge gap of unit labor costs – real productivity wages , adjusted for inflation – in germany and the heavily indebted southern european countries . when the crisis struck , production costs in greece were roughly 30 % higher than in germany ; thus , greece was exporting very little , and importing very much . simply put , low demand or large debts are not the main reason for the lag .
indeed , russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call against us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crisis through ’s actions over our supposed failure to uphold democracy is de facto a peaceful offensive that is offensive to make peace . putin ’s gambit is akin to that of the infamous yalta conference of 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a division of europe that enslaved half of the continent after almost a half-century . most significant , despite the russian military massed against the us , the us is embarking on an electoral campaign . next month , ukraine ’s citizens will freely choose a new president , a best rebuke that could allow russian propaganda on our supposed failure to uphold democracy itself . and yet , with ukrainians working to rebuild their country after viktor yanukovych ’s government of predatory rule , the us faces a new threat , in the form of a “ peacemaking offensive against the us ” that the old staple of soviet diplomacy , intended to undermine western resolve .
in june 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed wayward libyan civilian airliner headed for the reactor , killing 108 people . worldwide , but the 1991 persian gulf war was enraged by whatever solace israel might be able to take from the past . iraqi scud missiles have bombarded tel aviv , and one that came close to hitting dimona . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability to missile strikes . and , whereas israel ’s arrow ballistic missile defenses , which now surround dimona , may be superior to a patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s own projectiles .
if interest rates were kept beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed pressure , and long-term bonds would indeed go up for yield . moreover , the us financial institutions ’ capacity to stimulate the economy is being constrained by unwillingness by the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . until recently , investors were hoping that the american federal reserve could do whatever it takes to avoid a recession , for this is exactly what it has done on earlier occasions . now , it must recognize that the fed can no longer afford to do it . with oil , the fed , and other commodities firms and the renminbi appreciating rather quickly , the fed , too , must worry about inflation .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in the case of newsweek , “ the world needs thinking more strategically and creatively about tapping women ’s growth potential . ” increasingly , educated , pushy mothers make all the difference . but on the planet ’s worst , forcing scared , uneducated women will remain at home on a more socially acceptable scale than face up to the fact that this means picking up incomes for all . studies show that helping women access trade and cultivating businesses helps create jobs and boost incomes . and , in keeping with their marriage and giving children a own children a own , they will benefit from a two highly educated , employed parents , which means twice as much literate talk at home , twice contacts , and twice as encouragement to succeed .
as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make an effective contribution to european reform . indeed , the last time britain held a strong european voter was over two decades ago . the us was the “ other wife , ” undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner . one of the factors driving the uk ’s feeling of unease in its relationships with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions move closer to those of the us , or to the other english-speaking former colonies . until the 1990 ’s , british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that has been more prosperous and expansionary than that of the eu .
the upcoming elections will render the public ’s judgment about the success or failure of the austerity policies that were hammered . but the battle between pro- and anti-europeans is carnage what actually is at stake , and thus what should be the focus of electoral debate : how europeans can generate sustained economic growth . but it will also determine whether europe will remain the world ’s preeminent economic power , preserving its social model , and adjusting its rights and liberties framework to a world that does not wait for europeans to resolve their differences . that question , rather than endless defense against euroskepticism , should be the core deliberation item for parties that push for a significantly improved europe for all . broad-based revival – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon to confront those that would destroy the european project .
then there is the notion of systemic risk , which not only is in the eye of the beholder , but may be impossible to forecast . the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 viewed the currency as a systemic risk emanating from washington , though not from most european capitals . americans thought the europeans parochial ; they thought america disproportionately influenced by its 2000 mile border with mexico . everybody agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though this was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ?
the eurozone ’s southern members must lower their wage costs to claw back the competitiveness they have lost since adopting the common currency . a key proposal from the task force ’s first meeting was to develop indicators of competitiveness , and then to force member countries to take “ remedial action ” into the eu should the eu find large divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . concern about such divergences has also reached a task force , headed by european union president herman van rompuy , to devise fundamental reforms to eu-wide economic policy coordination . competitiveness , when commonly measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept .
mexico city – throughout the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans have gone to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of a ” abraham lincoln brigade . today , as more people have woken up to the threat us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights and the international order , a new global resistance movement appears to be emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait , and hope , that trump is turning a “ lame duck ” by damning revelations about his administration . improving yet trump might be impeached or removed from office on the basis of the 25th amendment to the american constitution , as long as enough other members of his own administration view it incapable of performing the duties of the presidency on its behalf . opposition could adopt three tactics , as he promised to do . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump is turning a lame duck into damning revelations about his administration .
if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would use less of it with a heavy gasoline price level , alternative energy sources like ethanol , and alternative forms of transportation , like electrically powered automobiles , would become commercially viable . no single measure would do more to make the world a less dangerous place than a significant reduction in its oil consumption . and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp rise in the gasoline tax in a country that consumes more of it than in any other country : the us . none of this would happen right away , either . in the short and medium term , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices .
new york – internet firms are supposedly all about the cutting edge , but reality , and buzz times conflict . in fact , groupon is doing for e-mail marketing what other internet companies do for yellow pages or on brands : encouraging shopkeepers to use modern technology to reach their customers . the model clearly makes for many customers : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers , and aims at $ 150 million by year-end . but groupon is spreading that model to a much broader audience , not so much to coupon users , but rather to merchants offer coupons . consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups , but its actual doing business is the old direct-mail marketing networks and coupons .
the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a decline in the equilibrium or “ natural ” interest-rate level , driven by shifts in the saving rate and the investment fundamentals . in other words , higher propensity to save in emerging economies , combined with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , has boosted the supply of savings worldwide , even as weakness in growth prospects and heightened uncertainties in advanced economies has depressed investment demand . this perceived fall in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as the key barrier to economic recovery , for it impedes monetary policy ’s ’s capacity to secure sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates has thus become the topic of the lively debate . conspicuously absent from the discussion is the role of financial factors in explaining the trend decline of real rates .
as enrico moretti of california ’s university in berkeley stressed in his book the new geography of employment , the salience of that new divide becomes starkly apparent : university graduates account for about half of the total population in the largely affluent american metropolitan areas , but they are four times less numerous in worse-off areas . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have examined the political consequences . they find that america ’s districts , where the economy was badly hit by chinese exports , have responded by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians , from either the left or the right . those who do happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the tumult of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and their children and relatives ’ fortunes are all highly correlated . when they do , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide .
the un commission of inquiry has gathered information identifying some of those responsible for crimes that it investigated , but that did not make it public . the human rights council , it seems , could act on its own . names produced by those responsible ought to be disclosed , either by the commission or by a different body crafted by the un human rights council . those that should be named should be notified and given a chance to refute the findings . if they fail to react , or if their response is unpersuasive , their names and crimes attributed to them should be made public .
“ national unity is a pathetic exercise in political maneuver , ” she complained , after being barred from a day after the attacks . but , with the right leaders at the helm , the january 7 attack might spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival . the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than elsewhere in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming especially weak and divided , an extreme right creeds in opinion polls . already , le pen appears set to be reverting to form . these ingredients could amount to a recipe for disaster .
when policymakers pick a model based on a huge state-dominated industry that is protected from internal and external competition , the goals for innovation are unlikely to be met , adversely affects future growth . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and a shift in output to a higher-value-added component of global supply chains . meanwhile , the non-tradable side is to grow . this implies rising capital and human capital intensity across both the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . here , innovation , and the conditions that support it – including competition and free market entry and exit – play an important role .
that has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has been transformed by a potemkin democracy . then there are the cases when a leader ’s election treats society as if it somehow legitimizes the post-dictatorship ’s subsequent emergence . elections by themselves , of course , do not make a democracy . consider the cases when elections empower a supermajority in ethnic or religious groups that then involve roughshod over the minorities , an outcome seen all too often in the balkan states , for example . this year , another election , by neither free nor fair , will give putin another term in office .
what they do share is that their “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats made the alternative – no deal at all , far worse . equally problematic has been the inclination to compare the two sets of negotiations . but iranians are nothing like the nazis ; nor does there be a country like the soviet union poses the type of threat that has inspired american president richard nixon to head off to beijing in 1972 . beyond timing , they have little in common with the eu . in greece , negotiations have been driven by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with his dangerous revisionist ambition or acting in the same way as a conduit for europe – tied to migrants .
when drugs are banned , but some athletes use them anyway on the playing field tilts in their favor of a cheater . if we prohibit drugs at the olympic games , it is because we owe it to the athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat . integrity seems an old-fashioned idea ; but it is at the heart of whom we are and how we live . so , what if this advantage stems from the use of an adaption to drug ? for athletes trying to compete in clean ways , the threat that they can blow up a competitor that is not faster , stronger , or more dedicated , but that takes the drug to the edge is profoundly personal .
for starters , the crisis countries ratcheted up their investment rates , driving growth expectations toward sustainable levels . more broadly , countries felt pressure from the imf and u.s. treasuries to remove capital-flow restrictions , increasing the risks , and making maintenance of pegged exchange rates ever more problematic . external forces , meanwhile , compounded the problem . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its governments to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to short-time inflows of short-term “ hot money . ” this sketch of the crisis underscores how much of the adjustment had changed over the ensuing 20 years .
it is not for either the euro or the yen ’s value , considering that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own . beyond this , the dollar does not go anywhere , either . the renminbi is approaching , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai will have become a world-class international financial center . and , then again , the renminbi will probably share the international stage with the dollar , not substitute for it . the one thing that could precipitate the dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in the us .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the us is deeply troubled by the direction in which the bush administration takes up the united states and the world . in this effort , i committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together , ( act ) grass-roots get-out-the-vote operation and $ 2.5 million to the mo'veon.org voter fund , ” a popular internet advocacy group airing advertisements to highlight the administration ’s misdeeds . if americans reject us president barack obama ’s policies at the polls , it is that america could write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . after all , if american voters endorse those policies , america must live with the world ’s hostility to it , and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence . i , along with a number of other affluent americans , are contributing millions of dollars to grass-roots organizations that have been engaged in the 2004 presidential election .
after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed , and almost 30 years after the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation of its country , the kremlin has stepped in to mediate a dialogue between the taliban and the representatives of other afghan groups . there is little reason to think that a nuclear-armed russia that never had a particularly predilection for long-term peace-building will be able to mediate , much less underwrite , durable peace agreements . yet the middle east – a manifold conflict region stemming from its religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic strengths – is having a time and once depleted foreign actors ’ dedication . whereas russia failed to overtake the us , more than 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . but russia is also likely to disappoint its supporters in the middle east , not least as its regional peace broker .
and this level partly reflects the fact that employed those who collect social security and medicare are subject to the payroll tax that finance them . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work . but experience shows that retirement decisions or work fewer hours are influenced by the compensation that such members receive . moreover , owing to the complex regulations that govern welfare benefits level , older workers who pay that payroll taxes are likely to receive no additional benefit at all . payroll taxes paid for workers are 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) and , on top of the personal earned income tax credit .
the eu must forge close cooperation with both russian leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave . if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu ’s enlargement will bring enormous impetus to europe ’s whole region , particularly the baltic sea region , from which so many of the new eu members are coming . up to now , eu interests in kaliningrad have centered on how to curtail its visa rights , which oblast ’s citizens now use to fend off poland and the baltic states , so as to visit the rest of russia . the eu will continue to extend its trade and economic growth further , and these could provide real incentives to make kaliningrad a more attractive neighbor and trading partner , not just a feared source of illegal russian migrants to the eu , which has enjoyed a supposedly lax eu visa regime .
lev artsimovich , tokamak ’s inventor , argued that “ fusion will be ready when societies need it . ” but , rather than , depending on fusion researchers to eschew odds , the world should step up investment in technology . our future may depend on it . without a nuclear fusion can be severely curtailed by future generations ’ energy options , creating a serious problem for both developed and developing countries alike . one hopes that it is right , so that it can .
a apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that a managing director who made the decision to support greece so heavily hailed the eurozone , and at the time barely disgusts his ambitions to run for the french presidency , that is , before his arrest in new york on rape charges . this mismanagement should disqualify any european policymaker from the imf ’s steering directorship and so far christine lagarde , a french finance minister , was hailed as having succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation . moreover , europeans dominate the fund ’s governance . it is a dereassuring interest conflict that the debtors dominate an international institution that lends them huge sums . would the imf not insist on a far harsher program , with less funding , for any country outside the eurozone ?
so the three problems that europe will face in the second half of this year are intimately interlinked . the eu will need the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer through its treacherous waters and implement vital financial reforms . few of those new faces , or ideas , are on the horizon . just now , the signs are far from promising . the us needs to hope that it is a surprise to be allowed to get started .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected obstacles that women face in getting the nominated task of a elected office and undertaking successful campaigns . in many countries , campaigning costs are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . overcoming such structural barriers requires a comprehensive strategy for empowering women candidates . one of the most powerful tools today is the money . such barriers include the electoral system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based in single member districts ) ; lack of access to funding ; weaker professional networks ; and out-of-responsibilities that force punishing and erratic work conditions .
together , these adverse trends dates back to the very 1980 ’s . given imperfect information about future needs , labor markets are out of equilibrium . this reflects both a public-health deficiency and an information gap : investing in job training during a fast-changing industrial structure is like shooting up a moving destination . powerful technological and global market forces are confined to no single country . similar issues arise everywhere , with divergences in outcomes that reflect variability in market flexibility and social-policy choices .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” the legacy of their success , the copyright laws themselves , continues to inhibit attempts to render cyberspace a freewheeling marketplace of ideas . but we have been here before , in reality , – for most of human history – we are here . whereas “ web 1.0 ” ” ” facilitated the stationing and transmission of a vast amount of various kinds of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , removing the ultimate frontier separating a transmitter and a receiver from information . the sharp divide between knowledge producers and consumers began only about 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal protection for their trades in a rapidly expanding literary market .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction now is one of may ’s principal aims . french president françois hollande was elected on the claim that the world of high-level finance was his enemy . thus , the delegation after a delegation of ministers , mayors , and assorted central-income lobbyists was filling london ’s best hotels , providing a welcome boost to high-end trade house . luxembourg , frankfurt , belgium , switzerland , and others have tossy presentations for their cities ’ competitive advantages over london : lower property costs , a lower corporate tax rate ( which sounds plausible when claimed with an iranian accent ) , michelin-starbucks , and deutsche dealerships , all essential services that make up a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations raised wry grin , or two .
iran ’s escalating aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel that supposedly focuses on iranian assets in iraq ( which has already raised strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to dial its disruptive activities in a host of theaters , not least by seizing the british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( they , too , note that the uk is ’s weak link ) . but those in iran , who argue that they are getting nothing from europe are simply wrong . the danger now is that both iran or its proxies in the middle east will misread the situation and cross a red line . iran has been understandably frustrated by europe ’s slowly gaining progress in launching instex , a bartering mechanism intended to authorize some intra-european trade .
moreover , american accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured methods of funding , and byzantine contractionary valuations . to be sure , american corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , such as , say , excessive reliance on peer review for auditors and so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage and investment-grade brokerage and investment-grade activities separate . so managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risks , and portrays a smooth track record of profit growth . in the end , us managers , rather than distant shareholders , control access to well-paying appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . so , both internal and external auditors , are often co-opted .
countries in asia – indeed , throughout the developing world – simply do not exporting their abundant , economically meaningful genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , promised an international regime focused on access to and benefit from ( arabs ) genetic resources . this would enable researchers and companies access to the developing world to a genetic treasure trove in return for a share of gains from then developed products . but brokering the arabs regime proved elusive , with diminishing access , and thus falling benefit-sharing over the last five or so period . this implies potentially massive economic , ecological , and economic losses for both the developed and the developing world .
and they will work to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . the second set , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than recent historical averages , while continuing to grow structurally . the benefits to economic growth will be less unequally distributed than in earlier years , though they will still accrue disproportionately to those that are already better off . a third group , led by europe , will struggle as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment with certain countries , and complicates regional policy choices . they will reorient their growth models gradually to make them more sustainable , an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake but not derails .
and because european firms are so heavily integrated with the american economy , europeans have struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . unless the euro can be made into an international currency to rival the dollar , europe ’s economies will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality . unlike the 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical ramifications , as it promises not only to improve the production of mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of a internet of things and digitalization entire economies . after all , european companies have come under growing costs . a third soft-power area has been technology , particularly respect for 5g .
so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? in judging clinton ’s statements on the subject , fact-checkers make a lot of the finding by blinder and watson that in contrast to widespread assumptions , neither fiscal nor monetary policies is more “ pro-growth ” nor expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents , nor can an explanation for the performance differential . blinder and watson suggest that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may , collectively , explain 56 % of the growth gap . but it is impossible to know the extent to which these factors have been influenced by american president donald trump ’s policies . we know even less about those responsible for just 44 % of the performance gap .
another possibility is for the us to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this could be constructed to include the other open association of southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand , with its eventual objective being a region-wide accord , a impressive largely final date when it comes to the end of 2011 , when it will obama ’s turn to playing host to all of his leaders . in this time of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade . but , with myanmar included , this may become too difficult politically , and a sub-grouping might be more realistic . this was proposed late in the bush administration ’s decision to forge links with some of asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as much as others across the pacific .
the trouble is that , historically , few outsiders seem to listen , far less prepared to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . this is especially true of those policymaking entities that possess far better tools to address the advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges . rather than using the opportunity afforded by central banks ’ ’ ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and deniability . as a result , they risk overstating potential challenges in the first place . in the united states for the fifth consecutive year in a row , the us congress has yet to pass a full-throated budget , much less handle the economy ’s performance and job headwinds .
a retirement is a long-term commitment from a state , and ultimately a taxpayer , to an individual politician at any given time . meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector workers – people who presumably rely on a government-sponsored personal education and infrastructure – receive the type of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan , according to the center for retirement rights . if politicians receive pensions that start at age 50 , as ryan puts it , retirement benefits could realistically be paid out for about 40-plus years . in order to restore fairness , government should follow private-sector ’s lead and link politicians with revenue in their performance . like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , policymakers making the wrong decision should face clawbacks on their reduced pensions .
pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keeping prison almost inactive and outnumber the opposition . of course , throughout history , national liberation movements have had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to reach the promised land . this was true of zionism , an italian risorgimento , and a majority of catholics , in northern ireland . abbas ’s presidential term has now expired , and the election is constantly set to pass . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa has been bound to rely on its security forces and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will .
the case of the khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be just another of these mistakes . for example , murat a kurnaz , a pro-born turkish male , has been held in guantánamo for four years before being released last august . seized upon the cia in macedonia , it was exhumed in afghanistan , and interrogated for five months before being released without charges . a commander in the guantánamo task force , a hindu admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended the harsh treatment of his prisoners , saying that “ they ’re all terrorist ; they are all enemy combatants . ” but a recent decision by the cia has , more recently , made mistakes .
the rotating presidency will replace the council ’s chosen president . a new balance will be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role for the european parliament and for national parliaments . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister , though formally denied that title , this is what everyone will say – with the strong administrative infrastructure at the european commission and at the council . the eu will become enmeshed in a legally binding right , with majority decisions becoming the general norm . a high price would have to be paid for that agreement .
cash usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is now falling by 10 % a year in the united kingdom , while it is barely changing in germany . cash is in decline in many countries , even though the rate is different from the eu to where it is . we need to hope that the government can respond to this question . van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience ” shows that , without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding certain groups within the society . the most interesting parts of the “ future of finance , ” concern how to pay are changing .
for the same reasons , imf loans can become a burdensome legacy from market perspectives . a second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country carries serious implications for the fund . for starters , accepting the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at facing value , imf loans would entail substituting its own “ non-defaultable ” debt for the “ defaultable ” of debt with private bondholders because the fund is used primarily to service outstanding bonds . as a result , a pool of lucky bondholders would be bailed out at the expense of those that have become junior to imf debt , remaining highly exposed to a likely restructuring . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed solely on whatever is left out of the defaultable ’s private debt , the larger the imf ’s share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability .
beijing – consider the matter : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of a persistent current-account surpluses , the market and interbank short-term interest rate is soaring . to see why did this happen , and what should policymakers do about it ? after all , the problem is , first and foremost , a structural one . in fact , china ’s monetary finance share is quite abundant . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with a m2/gdp ratio of roughly 200 % , compared to roughly 80 % in the us .
a further problem is that the region ’s educational and skills-learning programs do not spur adequate systemic thinking . learning and new approaches to public health are important here ; but they will become ineffective unless they are tailored to meet local people ’s true needs . worldwide , public-health policy has moved toward more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and management sciences , and humanities . while institutions like the weill cornell in qatar , and gulf university of science and technology in kuwait , innovative research and training programs that focus on these types of health challenges are far more needed . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind in a global norm .
given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , there is a widespread conviction that a victorious republican will be france ’s next president . i continue to believe that juppé will most likely emerge as france ’s next next president . in terms of age and profile , he resembles a french version of hillary clinton , more practiced on an exercise rather than conquest of power . and though juppé remains far ahead in opinion polls so far , the french could reject his mercurial version of french identity , favor sarkozy ’s far darker one . more telling still , he will be a party primary in november .
some hard political choices lie ahead : which parts of a framework program are to advance and eventually terminated ? how , then , can an innovation that is never just a technological , but socially like such a process , be achieved and fully deployed ? and , perhaps most important , what are the optimal trade-offs to allow eu member states and european institutions to collaborate more effectively for a common european future ? under the banner of “ simplistic , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” how ” ” ” ” ” ” gravitates toward outsourcing much of the pursuit of eu agencies , one hopes , with more flexibility to fulfill their particular missions . this entails a smoothly work-management and far more efficient interface between eu agencies and the european commission that retain total control over them , together with a rigorous revision of region-wide financial regulation and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape .
despair and estrangement took hold among the younger generation of arabs , representing more than 50 % of the region ’s population . indeed , sunni islamists , hoping to recover from the ruinous blows that they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already places to capitalize on the coming war with iraq . a us-led invasion of iraq , with its large number of civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeats that are felt by arab youths , and make them inclined to unite under al qaeda-style holy war cells . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , the war is likely to play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . political repression and silencing of arab public opinion should be scared of america and its arab allies , not of reassuring them , for this implies that no path can be taken by the public in order to channel their own interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully .
by committing to purchase more russian gas than necessary , and for a longer time being , the eu would help fund russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace . nord stream 2 would , however , make those woes inevitable . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close . furthermore , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , despite threats ( or a promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . but for the us , there is little mystery , either . in fact , pharmaceutical companies are paying players across the us health-care system in order to favor their more expensive medications over lower-priced alternatives . and those who should act as watchdogs for patients are happy to go along . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
though the arab world has traditionally been conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens live below the age of 35 , with young people suffering the highest rates of unemployment in most countries . but , while there are many more reasons for blaming foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blame others , or even one another for solving nothing . disaster awaits any region that is helpless to shape its own future in which a large majority of citizens feel disenfranchised . that constitutes not only outstanding resource constraints ; it is also a grave long-term sociopolitical problem . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and inefficient governance , unholy alliances , and highly undeveloped national capacity .
as unicef began by stressing women ’s hiring for their polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators in nigeria has increased dramatically . almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are female , on average . let us remember that the risks that these women take are protecting everyone from a disease that takes an enormous toll on global health . as a polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with total eradication in our sights , we might permit polio to return . to ensure that the female vaccinators remain committed to that fight , we are vital to tackling the barriers – whether about physical security , social constraints , or low pay – that they confront .
america does not have an effective regulatory framework for internet platforms , and it lacks the political will to create one . a sizable minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits the bubbles that have been created by those platforms – the digital false realities in which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme . in the us , roughly one-third of all adult populations have become impervious to more new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people find it easy to manipulate , a notion that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . in fact , western democracies are unprepared to cope with this threat .
as american troops captured american troops in iraq , president bush argued , he expects them to be treated humanely . “ if not , ” the president cautioned , “ the people who mistreat prisoners will be treated like war criminals . ” president bush ’s remarks have driven home the importance of harsh adherence to the geneva conventions , and the question of how war crimes trials can be portrayed in post-war iraq , and who acts them . america ’s war-crimes trials covers the violations committed before the current conflict erupted . american officials have recently released a list of drug iraqis who would face trials for past crimes .
third , newest systems can not explain what they have done , or why , they are recommending a specific course of action . in these “ black boxes , ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what is happening or to check if a concealed bias . in fact , when interpretability is important , for example , in many medical applications , you need a trained human in a decision-making loop . second , today ’s algorithms become extremely good at pattern recognition when issuing big data sets , finding objects in youtube videos , or detecting credit-card fraud – but are far less powerful with unusual circumstances that do n’t fit the usual pattern , or , simply when the data are scarce or a few , say , noisy . to manage such cases requires a skilled person , with his or her experiences , intuitions and societal awareness .
a second important area of progress has been reform of the russian ’s federation : the establishment of federal districts and reform of the confederation council . such changes are controversial ; but a federation , whose laws are not followed by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation where the observance of laws rests on local administrators ’ whim simply can not . president putin ’s moves to shore up an integrated system of power are thus logical and sound . a second important area of progress has been reform of the russian federation : the creation of federal districts and reform of the federation council . the country has also become more advanced in the path of its fiscal federalism : channeling all the value-added tax into the federal budget and income taxes to regions , makes for a sensible better allocation of budget resources among the tiers of authority .
within israel ’s right-wing wing , many worry that trump is simply attempting to appease israel with bellicose rhetoric and views saudi arabia as mainstay of us interests in the region . one can imagine that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward negotiations between israelis and the palestinians . but , given trump ’s failures to take a realistic stand on any core region of disagreements – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status as jerusalem – the idea that he plays some well-thought-out long game on the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched . to be sure , this is more than a bit concerning ; it applies to israel . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a security cabinet member , quickly express concern over an arms deal .
and the weaknesses in the london housing market appear not to have spread elsewhere . indeed , in the us , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward upward upward pressure on prices . strengthening the north ’s housing markets could do wonders to reverse the disquieting regional inequalities that have emerged over the last few decades . if the underlying trend is borne out , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . one thing we can be absolutely certain is that the government should pursue policies to engage with the northern powerhouse and , perhaps , with the “ midlands engine , ” too .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational corporations ( mncs ) have been rebalancing the global economy ’s rules away from their corporate tax liability , or have even eliminated it altogether . fortunately , some encouraging recent signs have emerged that the idea of a unitary tax is gaining traction . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . and , for some time now , the independent commission on reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has been arguing for mncs ’ unitary taxation .
the third step must be an expanded program of research and development to implement new , more effective approaches to controlling the disease . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and with drugs provided to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , arv therapies can be possibly expanded to even very poor countries at an acceptable price . this includes : funding to halt the transmission of maternal - to infant aids ; to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and to put a good program in place , even funding for anti-retroviral therapies . the most promising long-term answer is the prevention vaccine . recent breakthroughs in basic sciences give hope that an vaccine can be developed in the next decade if billions of dollars of research and development finance mobilized the public sector .
indeed , the un estimates that , over the course of their lifetime , up to seven in ten women worldwide who experience physical or sexual violence . clearly , a global shift in gender-related attitudes and standards is needed . for this to happen , national governments have the responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices , with policies effectively discouraging gender-based discrimination while avoiding violence , including punishing its perpetrators . at the same time , however , violence against women can be difficult to detect . even those who realize it may choose to ignore it , believe that it is not in their business , or too widespread to make a difference , or because they are too busy to make a difference .
this month , new mayors took office without an electoral commission ( cse ) making the public 100 % of the popular vote , the open breach in nicaraguan electoral law . though managua ’s electoral fraud was the most widely documented in most cases , this same modus operandi occurred in poland , affecting more than 40 municipalities . despite complaints from the catholic church ’s episcopal conference , chambers of commerce , and political parties , the cse refused to permit recount undertaken in the baltic country , or scrutiny , through impartial observers . consequently , the fsln government proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of 153 municipalities . and , with citizens protesting peacefully , the government resorted to violence in order to curb them .
indeed , even if putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution , the possibility that he will endlessly speculate about russia ’s dwindling western band – the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly obvious . moving from one high office in the kremlin to another at the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is simply a technicality . putin will be tsar , regardless of which office is formally its own . what will make this work is that , like a good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . it has been said that , by the time presidential democracy was simply reinforced by russian political culture ’s inclination to favor rulers with a “ strong hand , ” whereas in a parliamentary system it would allow for a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power .
the question now is whether the brothers will dominate , both in the streets and through egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new constitution ( which they largely wrote ) . for once , if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? this would be a poor mistake , to say the least . morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after winning international acclaim for his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza was staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . likewise , the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will return with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election and will demand a response within a few months .
the word “ liberalism , ” however , does not mean the same thing to all people . it came to be used in many circles to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in their personal lifestyles . and it was the alternative meanings that initially enabled politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties – was forced to step up .
the economist dani rodrik puts the appeal of populism to center stage . in that case , which a variety of populist governments will seize an opportunity ? in essence , macron hopes that his agenda – if implemented at the eu level – will lift not only the french economy , but all european boats . in reality , the odds are that such a reform will sink all boats , giving populists a chance to do so . despite talk of a “ green economy , ” and calling for a region-wide investment program , macron ’s ’s ’s ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal .
though globalization is a gradual process , it has gained momentum when china has decided to play the game . for example , german precision instruments and fiber optics have lost their competitive edge as japan entered the game . with much new low-wage competition , the first shock has been intensified by the globalization process . while china is ten times japan ’s size , japan was not easily able to cope with , either . the second shock was eu integration , including northern and southern enlargements .
america ’s worsening fiscal position leads through a strong dollar , just as america ’s deteriorating fiscal position after reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago did . in a dynamic economy , with jobs being lost in one industry , new job is being created in another . government ’s role is to facilitate the movement of labor from one to another . it is the government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment . while countries can pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for exports and good for imports .
defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculus . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is the foundation of all its external actions . yet on the great issues of war , peace and the balance of power , europeans appear trapped between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual countries about how best to define and secure their national interests . on the other hand , the world ’s rising powers , brazil , china , india , and russia , continue to insist not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action just as much . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many large issues regarding climate change , nuclear proliferation , that bedevil our world .
such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , rather than after , war . pro-milosevic candidate tomislav nikolic lost but received 46 % of the popular vote . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , had cooperated with the tribunal to pay treatment and to pay for him with his very life . despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s president boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty , by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic is not in serbia ) who would undoubtedly testify against milosevic . without full control over either the un evidence or the indicted , the icty has lacked from the outset of “ victors ’ legitimacy and authority . ”
furthermore , china , the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement , has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing improved social and environmental outcomes , in addition to more moderate gdp gains . to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue that emerges from necessity ; as export-driven growth slows , the risks of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption became more acute . but a new approach is also underpinned by the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a sound equilibrium between ecology and economics . this shift is tied to a third , broader development : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed environmentally , particularly with respect to climate change . for starters , the global financial meltdown , and the subsequent recession , laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thereby underlamenting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are in the best place to shaping environmental outcomes .
johannesburg – over the last two decades , my country has liberalized abortion , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has essentially taken away my right even to write that word . as a resident of south african women , i have provided abortion services for more than ten years . as part of my work , i am often hume education materials for an ngo working to support hiv prevention . but just two days after american presidential elections in november 2016 and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration , the ngo that i was working to stem the distribution of a reproductive-health guide , because it included south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to an abortion . for young south african women , such texts offer life-saving information on gender-related issues – including birth control , sexual assault , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws .
the election campaign will heat up in a time when america faces a daunting set of problems . is there an alternative to sending ground troops back to the middle east ? is there an alternative to sending ground troops back to the middle east ? indeed , how is it that america can respond firmly to russian aggression without forsaking the longstanding project of bringing it close to the west ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea go forever ?
the world can not , and will not , wilt in the face of such extremism wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to over 60 of the active members of the us . since september , the us has retaken 700 square kilometers of its territory . we have deprived the band of using – and resulting revenues – of 200 oil and gas facilities . the us has undermined its command structure ; undermined its propaganda ; withdrawn half of its senior leadership ; squeezed funding ; damaged its supply networks ; and dispersed its personnel .
academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war also played a significant role in enhancing american soft power . when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers rather than artillery had brought it down . while some american skeptics were concerned that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , visitors remained silent that visitors had vacuumed up political ideas alongside scientific secrets . bush , alas , failed to learn that lesson . many of these scholars became global proponents of human rights and intra-ussr liberalization .
forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” nowadays , chinese-style and indian-style modernity is a mentally destabilizing japanese . its aging population watches that resignedly as a new , younger asia became just as important to america as europeans were during the cold war . george w bush ’s approach was to view india as that of “ an anti-china , ” ” ” ” ” ” and thereby rebalance the “ world ’s greatest democracy ” against the world ’s “ oldest civilization , ” first and foremost . after all , if china is america ’s principal economic partner in asia , and if india is america , then what is left for japan ?
new york – a global recession now underway is the result of not just the financial panic , but also more fundamental uncertainty regarding the future course of the global economy . consumers are pulling back from their homes and automobile purchases , not only because they agonize over their wealth with collapsing stock and housing values , but also because they do n’t know where to turn . will they be able to place food on the table after this year ’s terrifying food price rise ? should they risk buying a new car when gasoline prices could soar again ? decisions about business investment are even starker .
indeed , they were german camps in occupied poland . the collective destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland the ideal placement of german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were assassinated . not so , no trace of polish authority has remained . everywhere else in german-controlled europe , nazi germany had to cope , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated manner , with local governments , if only for tactical reasons . this is one reason why poland is right to insist that camps do not call “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) .
india ’s embraer sells automobiles for 75 % less than its european rivals . brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized reproducing with a business model that others imitated . brazil ’s main suppliers to the global telecoms firm spot is found in china , where huawei now heads with sweden ’s ericsson . likewise , in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other us company in the world , and finished second with japan ’s panasonic in 2009 . in the us , the telecommunications sector now boasts a half-dozen emerging-market multinationals in a global top ten .
even the american government , with its debt duration around four years , would be unlikely to benefit much from an inflationary surprise if it were huge . meanwhile , the bulk of its liabilities are social security and medicare , which can not be inflated away . even the american government , with its debt duration as roughly four years away , would not be likely to benefit much from the inflationary surprise if it were huge . what would help is if their nominal disposable incomes rose relative to their ( rigid ) debt-service costs . and yet , with high unemployment likely to sustain nominal wages relatively subdued , typical troubled households might be worse off – with larger food and fuel prices cut in disposable incomes .
though china ’s leadership will , it hopes , lack the drama of 2009 , chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly create the impression of his own . to be sure , with turkey ’s term at the g-20 ’s helm having barely begun , xi probably will not be placated on concrete priorities . unless he missed the opportunity to advance the asia-pacific free trade agreement ’s goal while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not pass the chance of ensuring that the g20 ’s agenda serves china ’s interests well . elements of the current g-20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure . but there are some potential areas of worry that are already becoming apparent .
new york – in the immediate aftermath of the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary gains that were sat on the left while those opposed them and hankered after the old order of monarchy and church had been congregated on the right . many commentators in the french presidential election pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france , or , indeed , anywhere else . emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither the right nor the left . marine le pen , whose national front is affiliated with the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who was minister in a socialist government , is a leftist . so the political terms “ the left ” and the “ right . ”
but the judgment criteria are clear : a new law will have to curb practices that jeopardize the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system toward its proper tasks , allocate capital , provide credit ( especially to small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating an efficient payments system . we should toast these likely successes : some form of financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trading moves toward exchanges and clearing houses from murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be restricted . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged for every debit transaction , a kind of tax that goes without any public purpose but to fill the banks ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ coffers will be curbed . but the likely default is just equally noteworthy : the too-big-to-fail banks problem is now worse than it was before the crisis . as a result , it probably will not be long before one can judge the success of whatever law adopted by america ’s congress ultimately enacts .
this makes the case for germany and the french critiques of the eu generally focusing on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british are often striking at the european project itself . to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify with each other as europeans opposed to uk citizens to identify themselves as british – or , even , like english , irish , scotland , scotland , scotland , france , or welsh . but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are extremely likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of whatever kind . to be sure , there are plenty of differences between britain and france with respect to how they participate with the united states and nato . the uk is somewhat closer to nato than france ’s is .
the treaty ’s long-term implications stand in sharp contrast both to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to the republican counterproposal . had obama been proposing to maintain the current tax rate for just two years , the tax package lowers america ’s projected national debt at the end of this decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s gdp ) by some $ 2 trillion , or close to 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . though the new tax law is widely described as a kind of fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a large , immediate fiscal contraction . in fact , obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rate rates for all taxpayers , other than those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 . by agreeing to limit the current tax rates for a mere two years , the tax package reduces the projected national debt of the rest of this decade ( relative to what it would have been for obama ’s administration ) by some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , in 2020 .
the automobile market was rescued in 2009 , at the behest of sales in 2010 and in subsequent years . spending on automobiles kept in the us until government stimulus programs in many countries revived it . but schemes like the public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars have simply led many to resume their purchases . at the same time , the crisis has exposed the scale of massive over-capacity in america ’s retail market , with estimates forcing at least one-fifth of american shopping malls to close . responding to the crisis will hastening the movement toward reline purchases in which physical location is no longer a preeminent fraction of shopping decisions .
possessing the people gives him the territory . indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the birth of the christ . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of government by a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , just as obedience within a stratified society was also a virtue . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue allows the ruler .
a damascene conversion is not only feasible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the most realistic scenario now is a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , hezbollah , and hezbollah . but a syrian-israeli peace treaty would drive a wedge between syria and iran , cutting off hezbollah ’s arms lines , while enabling the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . the only way to disengage syria from a lethal iranian embrace is to try to draw it into a regional grand scheme for peace . alas , due to their isolation and ba’athist regimes ’ paranoiac ’s character , syrians are unlikely to meet america ’s status for peace talks : abandoning their present rogue alliances , and viewing them as a marriage of terror .
for much of thailand , a long economic boom of the last two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolises , brazil ’s boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by rural majority . while rural populations had more than enough to eat , their economic opportunity and upward mobility constrained the country ’s shoddy education system , and docile state-run media that fed them soap operas and official messages . thailand ’s ’s ’s farms became increasingly estranged from the urban elite . for the sake of nobody to become somebody , all highways led to bangkok , and its prestigious prep schools and universities . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , upending a elite consensus that had long prevailed .
by establishing an example of coexistence , they can mitigate the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites , who attended a conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders forced to flee syria for support of the shia revolution . “ depriving the sectarian card regime of a sectarian card is crucial for its ouster , ” a conference noted . the delegates – which joined with a number of sunni opposition members – denounced assad , declaring their ununwavering support for a united , democratic country that offers full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or ethnic background . if alawites and sunnis living abroad might stand united against assad ’s regime , so might their counterparts within syria .
within the ndb ’s case , each brics own an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to initial subscribed capital . though equitable shareholding was not china ’s ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s ’s at 6 % . moreover , china announced its plans to join the aiib soon after signing the ndb articles of agreement in march 2014 . meanwhile , brazil and south africa made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as the “ founding members . ”
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand when it comes to american dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that drew broad bipartisan support . and it is particularly bizarre that even as us policy toward mexico increased greatly the odds of an american chávez-type character becoming president there , officials display positive publicity to a government that produced a caricature of catastrophic governance . well , in both instances , the us should say no : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a wealthy country takes its money out of an impoverished neighbor with millions of agony is barely appealing . rather than bashing latin america , america needs to show it can be a steady , principled friend that is not swayed by the corrupt bribes of any type . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices weaken the venezuelan government ’s hand .
europeans can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . indeed , the political imperative is as great as the constitutional . europeans , after all , are committed to a democracy worldwide . in europe ’s way of thinking , however , it is that democracy must spread pacifically through persuasion , not through arms force . a similar solution should be found for the european constitution .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as physicians with dedicated training in forensics , my job traveled to tijuana to meet with juan , on his attorney ’s request .
at the same time , he has suggested that america will work with india to develop the indo-pacific security zone . in each case , the region ’s us-india security cooperation potential , while hinted simply at in trump ’s speech , is already being discussed by both governments . for india , trump appreciable of what india already does , but is urging it to do more , using its vast earnings from exports to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . the address has also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what might be called the trump doctrine . the implications for trump ’s speech extend far beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan .
it organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , the reconstruction of japan , and more . under that order , the rest of the world has closed much of america ’s vast technological , education , and infrastructural gap with america . yet , china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , even though still only around one-fourth of the size of its per capita gdp . the share of the global economy represented by america ’s has declined by roughly half ( to about 16 % now ) . as leading economists tell me , global growth was “ convergent , ” ” meaning that poorer countries were catching up .
of course , achieving that goal , not to mention the other sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion per year . given budgetary pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and can not be relied on to fill that need . a focus on corporate social responsibility could help ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while energy – and resource-efficiency imperatives could help to safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and innovation incentives are critical as well . indeed , as an annual report by an international committee of sustainable development finance puts it , the financing spectrum for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever .
for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes , which were then reallocated to users of oil , they would unambiguously be good . to be sure , most taxes impose heavy “ excess burdens ” : costs far exceed the value of the income raised as a result of potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts against evasion and avoidance . a tobin tax on oil , on the other hand , does not impose an excess burden . a shift toward more energy-efficient means that transportation ease congestion . on the contrary , it implies excess benefits .
you buy up low-carbohydrate products , energy , and nutritional bars , vitamin – and mineral-enriched foods and beverages , consumer soy foods , and practically anything with their health claims . like many people , i speculated that small , innovative companies dominated functioning foods . so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those to which manufacturers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol , soy , or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable them to take advantage of – or even “ qualified , ” health claims by the fed and the drug-administration ( fda ) . the sales of lesser-evil and dysfunctional foods have done well in recent years , bringing some $ 85 billion in american sales in 2004 alone . if you routinely buy foods , you are among lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) consumers , the health food industry ’s cherished demographic base .
all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and reunification . specifically , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were both culturally and politically highly diverse . a common market was thus defended at the outset in terms of the gains that would follow from increased trade . the case for capital-market integration , followed after a single currency , followed by a similar process . unity is supposed to be a cornerstone of prosperity .
according to a recent oecd study , impact investing with the us would not exist without the support and partnerships with the federal government through in-country grants , loans , and guarantees . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance deals . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and they must be an essential feature of all government programs . in a sib , government contracts with external provider in order to achieve a measurable social-objective ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private-sector impact investors fund a program of upfront costs , and governments promises a return to them if the program ’s targets are met . a few existing federal programs , like community reinvestment act , and a small-scale business investment-investment program are supporting the growth of impact investing funds .
their presence indicates that behind the parade ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader , more complicated story of china ’s wartime experience is unfolding . china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in combating fascism and imperialism in wwii , and increasingly to respect western ignorance about its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices made 14 million dead and of its major contributions in holding down more than a half-million japanese troops also reflected partisan history of a war that has been learned in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was when the ccp led the opposition toward japan . foreign assistance – including a major american role in wartime china – did not have a place in this narrative .
but are these newfound wealth effects really all that is being made ? yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high , but only in the current us dollars . in real terms , the s & p 500 is still more than 20 % below its january 2000 peak . similarly , while the jup index for american home prices is currently up 10.2 % over the year ending march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron ’s election as president . and they knew what they voted for them out : each policy that he implemented thus far has been incorporated into his campaign platform . still , that distinction may not be nearly as powerful as the socialists may believe . in fact , the socialists have begun to distinguish themselves not from what they are , but from what they are , touting the line , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ’s ” ( the benchmark for the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues , from europe , secularism , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and much to what makes it exceedingly difficult to identify what , precisely , constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays .
there is an even less risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah ’s recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending is out of the country . syria ’s ’s president bashar al-assad has more homegrown support than recent media accounts for the country ’s unrest in the south suggest . the brutal crackdown on the 2009 post-election protests in yemen has demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by any means necessary . no few saudi demonstrations appear to be inhabited almost completely by the shia minority , who find little compassion among majority sunnis , and by foreign-construction workers petitioning for higher salaries and better functioning conditions . nor does iran ’s government seem set to confront a genuine threat .
mexico city – the region of four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by a legacy of past century ’s wars . they are resilient , yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption , and all but forgotten by the international community . but there is now reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not quite within the same category that central america ’s other three represents . like them , it has suffered through a brutal , protracted civil war ; unlike the us , yet successive governments have erected institutions capable of promoting a reasonable degree of territorial control and domestic security .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . ten governments in the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios above 75 % . as growth slowed , public spending declined , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment had barely begun , the old rent-distribution model became unaffordable , with populists turning against regimes that seemed unable or unwilling to mount a convincing reformist effort . no longer content with merely flashing aging autocrats ; the protesters are also targeting a core element of deep state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is throwing this carefully calibrated system into disarray . it is reflected in its pressure on european countries not just to spend more on defense in order to fulfill their nato commitments – a valid demand – but that they must continue to channel that us-made arms spending toward the eu . it is equally visible in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported foes . far from displaying the trump administration ’s acknowledgement of the deal might imply that trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . there are seldom more examples of trump ’s predilection for power .
indeed , as we saw in the recent crises , private risk-taking and debt were socialized when the crisis occurs . using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified a number of countries where investors were lacking in risk and opportunities . so , even when public deficits and debt were low from a crisis , they could rise sharply after one erupts . suddenly , governments that peddled fiscally sound issues are appearing insolvent . a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stockpiles and national account flows to capture all of the dangers , including risk in its financial system and the real economy , together with broader risk issues .
abedi ’s barbaric act , on the other hand , has killed at least 22 people , many of them children . i chaired an economic advisory group on greater manchester council , and then served as chair of the cities ’ growth commission , which advocated for the “ northern powerhouse , ” a program designed to link the british north ’s cities to a cohesive economic unit . i subsequently joined david cameron ’s government briefly , helping to implement the early stages of a northern powerhouse . i never attended a concert in the manchester uk arena , but that appears to be a large venue for a city . during the last few years , i have been heavily involved in the political considerations of this brilliant city ’s economic revival .
one teacher in the sleepy nile delta village morbidly quips that it doubles as a morgue . “ a great deal of hope , which is now dead … it has been killed . we never see a revolution here , ” to a few months ago withholding his name in fear of losing a job . the nile delta – some 60 miles to the north of cairo ’s tahrir square , the epicenter of the 2011 egyptian uprising , withholding secondary school students by calling them “ a prison . ” a deformed box of concrete packaged with dilapidated classrooms , schoolboys object to age and neglect .
the five flaws in the board ’s ’s ’s ’s fiscal plan are , indeed , out of the question . the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and will weaken israel ’s debt sustainability , thereby perpetuating an acute crisis that all parties will want to end . first , the projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp will decline as a consequence of every dollar of fiscal contraction is eventually used for gnp projections – assume that a contraction of one dollar in the primary fiscal deficit will usher in a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . yet the ten-year fiscal plan , approved by the cbo over the 2017-2026 period , that will form the basis of debt-restructuring discussions , appears to ignore this circularity . unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep-seated projected fall in actual gnp is highly optimistic , because it relies on a number of implausible , and/or controversial , assumptions .
eliminating this constraint might endanger the bank ’s triple-dip rating , but make the gait more effective . i propose that the world ’s open societies form an alliance with a dual purpose : fostering both the evolution of open societies within individual countries and the evolution of a globally open society . the first involves contributing development aid ; second , strengthening international institutions , like the international central bank and the world development organizations . such control damages the economic growth of open societies . such an alliance requires that not only governments cooperate among governments , but also civil society .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more of its military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . accra , a planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to drop out of the federal title x family-planning program , promoting low-income women . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
given these weaknesses , it should come as no surprise that employment policies ’ net effects are often very small relative to the magnitude of the problem . after all , employment policies , for example , have done little to reduce severe regional imbalances and discrimination within the regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after the war there in the 1990 ’s . in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation thought that had been central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” still , in kosovo , unemployment has stood at a record 45 % since its war ended .
against this reflection , japan will firmly uphold fundamental values like freedom , democracy and human rights as unhinged values , and , working in the hands of countries that share such values , hoist a flag of the “ proactive contribution to peace , ” ” ” ” ” ” and contribute to the world ’s peace and prosperity more than ever before . the us will strengthen its aid to developing countries and lead the world toward further prosperity in this century . prosperity lies in the very foundation of peace , and the us will continue to miss its borders . japan will make even stronger efforts to combat extreme poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence and provide opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to all over the world . we will engrave in our hearts long histories , as japan ended up turning into a challenger to the international order .
in bahrain , the shia who make up 75 % of the population have been keen on the reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah . though they represent just 20 % of saudi residents , they comprise a majority -75 % – one of the oil-rich population . in saudi arabia , shia are at the vanguard of those welcoming democratic change and state participation . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered discrimination in occupations : in saudi arabia , army , high government posts , diplomatic corps , and , most notably in the oil-rich gulf states , where they have been hollowed out since the 1980 ’s . this systematic neutering of the shia in saudi arabia betrays the wahhabi religious establishment , and backed by numerous fatwas denouncing them as heresy .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products , such as anti-malarial bed nets and anti-retroviral drugs . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund built a massive supply-chain to deliver goods . in the process , deaths from aids declined by 50 % from their peak , and malaria deaths fell by roughly 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now the fund has $ 14 billion in new funding to keep this work moving . the replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost , because of the sheer number of lives it will help save .
the right-centrist parties – the union of right forces , and yabloko – do have this vision , and the people know it . a higher education does seem to be a lower proportion of voter participation : among those who will never vote for it , the percentage of those with a university education is twice as high as that of those without a higher education . this is , in fact , a sort of political depression ; first , it is part of a political depression . a depression can be cured , but only by giving the patient a positive vision to its future . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest have devoured their hands in policy .
only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international backing that military action – except clear self-defense – requires . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this is true for the actions that contemplated by individual nations , as well as for temporary alliances , or for more enduring alliances , like nato . this last point has been at the heart of the problems facing iraq . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , especially at this late stage , alter a fundamental perception of that intervention , both within and outside the arab world .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by pointing out that women , who had been shorter , and first gave birth at a time when younger children had more children . but genes are just one part of a variety of factors that influence heights and age at first birth . when we estimated how dramatically variation among individual individuals could be attributable to biology , the answer reached less than 5 % . that has left more than 95 % of variation to the cultural and individual choices effects . personal choices , nutritional levels , income levels , education , and religious affiliation all enter the mix .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is subverting public faith in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect europe ’s ’s ’s leaders to strengthen as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they have allowed one of the jewels of post-world war ii european integration , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under threat just as well . contrary to the european union ’s brussels-based union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought its help – far more than can be expected to adopt a reasoned decision . ( on the contrary , the united states supreme court has received roughly 10,000 petitions annually . )
as security expert sarah chayes argues in the fight against corruption , the plethora of essays that the british government publish to accompany the summit , corruption today is structured practice . inevitably , leaders must contend with difficult tradeoffs . in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may seem to serve vital purposes . one deploys soldiers to fight terrorism ; another ensures critical energy supply , or access to scarce raw materials . to identify the best approach in any particular scenario , governments need to analyze problem solving more effectively , which means improving intelligence and data collection .
either three unorthodox remedies have been used in past debt crises . they may be seen as alternative forms of tax , if implicit rather than explicit . either way , willingly or not , some may seek recourse to inflation or administrative actions aimed at restraining domestic savings into state financing and keeping the bond rate low ( what economists call financial repression ) , or eventually a outright debt restructuring . finally , there are different methods for forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated greek debts . is it really preferable to adjustment collectively ?
after the shock of the terrorist attacks of september 2001 , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision . at the same time , leaders consider that vision may solve most of their problems , but flawed visions – or an over-ambitious vision – can do the harm . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called the vision thing . when pressed upon his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he responded , “ it ’s just not me . ” but one , too , is bound to be wary of visions .
and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are n’t joining trump in supporting their climate commitments . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california that have embraced the initiative to spur worldwide technological innovation . moreover , according to a recent department of energy ’s energy agency , growth in us wind and solar industries increased by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . and the private sector has come around to view renewable energies as a potentially profitable business . in the american us , wind power costs have dropped by two-thirds since 2009 ; the utility-scale solar cost has decreased by 85 % .
but policy mismanagement and structural vulnerabilities in the financial sector and local governments could undermine efforts to safeguard growth . already , the spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % this year , reflected a significant slowdown , and india ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate is forecast to decline to around 6 % this year . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand fundamentals , and the ample room for policy maneuvers , can help it to avoid a hard landing . it has already been aggressively loose of monetary policy , and it can employ additional fiscal stimulus . moreover , if conditions within the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could be facing even sharper pressure .
taking advantage of the historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they highlight how other east asian countries have experienced an annual deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp reached about $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the persistently 1990 american dollar prices or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 prices for china . in the five years since japan reached its level , its economy has grown at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its median annual growth rate over the next five years will drop well below 7 % . for china , as a whole , growth has fallen to 4.8 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold by next year , many are confident that its median annual growth rate over the next five years will fall well below 7 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the status quo for many years to come . contrary to what the trump administration has , obama and his advisers seem to believe that there is much to be gained by acknowledging the hard political truths when doing so point to a radical change of course . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama of the famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” is that he included public admission to the united states ’ past missteps in the region .
the last thing that the ecb needs is the political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder ’s assumption that mr. issing ’s keynote post . preventing small countries – like the rest of the big ones – from competing for specific vacant seats reduces the executive board ’s potential competency competency further . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to a board in an open competitive system than under the current one . getting large countries permanent seats on the executive board also makes it easier for their politicians to master the ecb through a appointments process . some of the best people at the service of the ecb , or who have served in the past , come from small countries .
but labor costs have risen much faster throughout the global south , with the result of differential cost hikes that can not be addressed by devaluation over time , if the currency union endures . indeed , over-wage deflation is likely to have negative productivity effects . as long as this internal divergence persists , europe ’s crises can not be fully resolved , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue stalk southern european countries , perpetuating their worries about sovereign debt and commercial banks . indeed , excessively rapid wage deflation probably has negative effects on productivity . skilled labor is likely to emigrate more quickly , as well as extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment , as well as the resulting likelihood of social tension , are not exactly equalizing investment , innovation , or labor mobility . against this background , productivity increases whether through technical progress , better resource allocation , or productive investment – are just as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint .
indeed , key elements of a modern british identity have all seemed to belong to england , rather than to a composite entity . likewise , the establishment or state church of england is created almost 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that a catholics should not reconfigure his marriage . that , of course , does not mean that no identity is ever claimed . an institution called the english inheritance extending through the past , from prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old home houses , which are being celebrated in the tv costume dramas . former prime minister john major has challenged the uk as a country of long shades of cricket grounds , warm crass , invincible green suburbs , flats , and tree lovers , and , as george orwell put it , “ ancient maids bicycling to the holy communion through the morning fog … ” but what is really describing was england .
that bold policy initiative , seen in the face of japan ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any increased exposure to military risk , has no doubt endeared abe to american diplomats and military strategists , as well as to secured both an open and sometimes tacit acceptance from japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is particularly important now , owing to american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness . both abe and obama focus on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia ’s people ; abe was eager for japan to play a more active role on that front , as well as in backing its allies . in america ’s view , a reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe has pledged – thereby enabling japan ’s self-defense forces to assist the allies under attack , and to assist the united states and other nato allies in meeting their commitments to ensure asia ’s peaceful means , has been long overdue . that stance makes an alliance far more an equal partnership than it has been for the last six decades .
with khamenei having served as president , before ascending to iran a top political and religious leadership position , it is easy to see that raisi ’s conservative candidate , rather than receiving a candidate , was overwhelmingly elected , could well become khamenei ’s successor . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are the public ’s knowledge . in fact , khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should name in the near future is “ not low . ” the matter of who occupying a presidency during this transition is certainly not inconsequential . iran is at its pivotal moment in its history , and as long lines of citizens eager to cast their votes plainly show , iranians are aware of it .
moreover , north korea ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as a state , are burdened by deep anxieties among its neighbors . yet , despite all of these hurdles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation to overcome them . the recent trilateral summit of china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , aside from meetings that take place on international gatherings like asean summits . sadly , however , leaders in china , south korea , and japan have not yet made any headway on the most sensitive security challenges that divide them . but this lack of quick success does not mean that those efforts are futile .
for more than 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating for their intrinsic saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . here , however , the past should not be viewed as prologue . after all , china has made conscious strategic choices in order to change its own growth strategy . and , to be sure , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers are benefiting immensely from cheap chinese imports , the walmart ’s “ effect , ” which enables them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on us jobs and real incomes . a seismic shift is on hand , and america ’s recent fiscal follies can well be a tipping point .
with the current annual inflation rate above 2 % , and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by five-year five-year-forward inflation-indexed bonds ) , yields on ten-year treasury bonds should remain above 4 % . ten-year us treasury bonds now yields a rate of only about 2.5 % . a yields on a ten-year yield to 4 % would weaken the value of those bonds substantially . reaching for yield also narrowed credit spreads between higher-yielding bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds . other long-term bonds , – both government bonds and corporate bonds – would suffer a similar correction .
because raising capital is difficult and expensive , they deleverage by making lending less expensive . without that confidence , credit is not flowing in , and economic activity will be pulled apart . without that confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity will dry up . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness now goes beyond decreased credit supply . falling employment lowers wages on wages and wages . moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets have been bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages exacerbate their need to deleverage .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products , and engaging in speculation around the world , may have served its firms well , even when it imposes large costs on others . today , the risk is that the new keynesian doctrines will be employed and abused to serve some of the same interests . or will they just push for cosmetic reforms , the minimum required to justify mega-trillion dollar bailouts ? have heart change happened or simply strategy change ? have those pushing deregulation around a decade ago learned the lesson ?
wage restraint and productivity gains improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in joblessness undermines consumption , the recovery is widening to other sectors . in short , the credibility that ireland has gained through resolute fiscal policy and reform has helped to restore confidence , facilitate a return to growth , and hence fiscal consolidation . a variety of factors has been fueled by such growth . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitating elsewhere .
but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and decreasing the size of the eventual write-down is actually adding to a superior outcome . a third component is the exercise of suasion on bondholders to achieve maximum participation , obtain supplemental pre-obligations , and remove free riders . because such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , they are necessary for substantial official muscle and peer pressure . thus , under this model , and , despite initial pressure , bondholders ’ behavior might be viewed as genuinely voluntary . and , whereas ratings agencies might still regard the vienna-type outcome as default , talmudic sages show us why a more thoughtful classification requires .
as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of skill or products and exchange it for millions of other things that we have no clue about how to do or make . as a consequence , we end up doing remarkably few things , buying everything else from the other . that observation is as true of an individual as it is of the eu , whether the eu is a neighborhood , a city , a state , or a province or country . every town has grocery stores , beauty parlors , gas-stations , and movie theaters that serve local communities . in some sense , the market economy is a gift-exchange system ; money merely catches the value of donation that we pass on to one another .
another consortium began constructing a multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia to turkey and the west . but they have brought in no economic trickle , either . here , humans survive on a few dollars a mere day , on a daily basis . oil and gas pipelines transport conduits rather than real employers . in addition , georgia rewards for providing a strategic export journey to the west for azeri oil were not dollars but a diplomatic insurance policy – that is , westerners , in particular the us , worry about the safety of the pipelines .
even in hong kong , where equities have recently hit new highs , they are still only 10 percentage points above their peak in early 1994 . during the same three full year , wall street prices and europe have skyrocketed by 60 % or more . this picture bears little relation to what we hear in political pronouncements or reading in business newspaper readings . policymakers warn of a challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” japanese shares account for half of their 1990 prices , and tend to pay a little over one-month high .
austerity should be eased , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies ; and substantial resources should be devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in over-indebted firms . strong central institutions , responsible for a directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . under the shorter term , a single market should be expanded to include services , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . national banking systems should be unified , to separate private losses from heavily indebted sovereign debt , centralized surveillance , and resolution authorities , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme forming the backbone of the european banking union . germany ’s unwillingness to take the lead on these issues partly reflects historic inhibitions , always difficult to overcome .
in sixty years , a fragile and divided country , one ripped out of wars internal and externality , is on the verge of becoming the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , while far from being broken equally by china ’s relative political stability , while its opening regime remains strictly constrained , is undeniable and inadequately regarded . just consider the massive access to education of its vast rural population , unlike its “ democratic rival , ” india , so china ’s pride nowadays is legitimate . china , which has just celebrated with the martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the peoples of the republic of india , constitutes one of the most intriguing instances of a nation evincing “ short-sightedness ” toward its past . in its recent history , china has much to show for it .
by allowing exchange-rate flexibility , such an approach would also enable the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that are likely to emerge in a currency union : the undervaluation that generates inflationary pressures and the overvaluation that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) . perhaps more importantly , it would not have a lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in times of crisis . all things being considered , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the beginning , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates on domestic economic conditions . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland could be minimized by sterling debt issuing , thereby protecting investors against the additional devaluation risk . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( profits earned in the form of central-bank operations that typically benefit the nation ) .
value-under-tracting heavy industries shrunk , with services expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russian output . the government and therefore economic reform pays to that neglect at the polls . as a result , corruption blights reform throughout the old world . while the transition was bound to be painful , the russian corruption epidemic caused more political harm than the economic adverse effects of reform . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering allowed opponents to say that the “ mafia ” was grabbing the bargains of economic change .
he crams his party with mediocrities selects mostly of bad advisers and fails to heed those rare good ones . while he does not sacrifice a major morality to power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer that he once was . he is neither corrupt nor war criminal , nor aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor inbend the law to personal power . it may be that his image as right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary left who would like serbia to restore its pre-wwii monarchy , and to the orthodox church , in order to play a major role in political and social life . many voted by him out of default as both right-of-center democrat conceals now and with his defeat , in 2000 .
they will allow themselves to become intoxicated with a sight of luminaries and la france d’en haut ( elite france ) seeming to eat from their hands and hang onto their every word . but if the yellow vests permit passionate hatred to win over genuine flanks and choose wrecking over genuine fraternity and choosing wrecking over reforming , they will bring only mayhem , rather than improve , the lives of humble and vulnerable people . looking ahead , the yellow vests will have to choose : a democratic re-invention or an up-to-date version of national socialist leagues ; a willingness to repair , or an urge to destroy . or the yellow vests may turn out to lack those boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure to be seen on tv . they will careen off to the darkest side of their political night , ending at the dustbin of history in which they can rub elbows with those other yellows , a early-twentieth-century neoliberal yeltsin ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry .
what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failure in iran ? according to iranian-turkish vice president shimon peres , this is extraordinarily complicated to do business in iran . a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate in stark terms : “ it ’s like if the iranians prefer a lose/a lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with foreign partners . ” others suggest that iran , along with its almost non-existent banking system , is the culprit . still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in response to fear that iran and turkey might become too powerful .
moreover , we need to invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments , as well as diagnostic tools to determine lower-resource settings that are suited for lower-resource settings . this disparity prompted the lancet medical journal the ncd crisis to refer to the ncd crisis to the “ social justice question of our time . ” moreover , we must invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments , and in diagnostic tools that are fit for lower-resource settings . essential medicines and tools for diagnosing and treating cardiac disease , cancers , and respiratory ailments are also far less available and proportionally more expensive for people in low – and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . in fact , diabetes is not unique among ncds , and diseases are in the past .
in its 2010 survey by the united nations , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid , to expanding health-care coverage to implement a cap-and-trade scheme . but an international organization should be judged according to the quality of the information and advice it provides , not by whether governments are listening . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a list of previous recommendations and implementation status . but an international organization should be judged according to the quality of the information and advice it provides , not by whether governments are listening . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores purpose : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by informing officials about their costs and benefits .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s ’s ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require that him maintain close links with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s moves throughout the process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself if it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he described as “ the worst deal ever . ” most important , he will need to reach out to the north korean regime , at least so far , to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and agree on a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in a another summit . then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection could prove the toughest challenge yet . moreover , he will need to maintain every alternative to the table , despite the fact that military options remain far from tenable in the context of the inter-korean dialogue .
germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway , and with the sdp determined not to join the government , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for that country ’s colors ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push for european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of governing leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe over the next few years . another way to view germany ’s electoral outcome as an opportunity for a fresh start . the cdu/csu “ grand coalition ” could imply an end to political stagnation not only in germany , but also in the european level .
elimination of fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government , giving nigeria 's generals a pretext for renewed military control . it would take six long years under a rapacious military rule before nigeria has received another chance at a democracy . the timing could not have been worse , as it has come before . over the last year , nigeria was celebrating a remarkable break from the dictatorship . following the brutal and hyper-corrupted military rule general abacha – who had suddenly fallen dead – a army sullivan endorsed another national election .
they need to consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , an integrated nature of women ’s health , and their impact on communities . and they need to design uhc programs accordingly . for example , to reduce maternal mortality , do not enough to provide antenatal instruction , secure delivery , and postnatal care ; it is not enough to ensure access to safe , lawful , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care . rather than sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health policies and gender equality more broadly , governments need to acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s ’s needs . such barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been achieved , in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity is boosting its stake in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access to , or control , the country ’s natural resources . to meet the challenges of this complicated reality , brazil ’s ’s peaceful foreign policy will have to promote a robust defense policy . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , says that modernizing the armed forces is intrinsically associated with national development . it thus emphasizes the need to enhance its domestic defense industries .
a country ’s soft power has rests on the attractiveness of its culture , the appeal of its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies . the large , expatriate communities in the americas , 2.4 million chinese , and 1.7 million indians have raised each other ’s interest in their home countries among other americans . yao ming , china ’s national basketball association ’s star ’s houston rockets , could become just another michelle jordan ; after all , china is set to host the 2008 olympics . moreover , transnational connections in information industries are closing , as western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time services . yet the real promise that the us for china and india lies ahead .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone the full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union , an agreement that ukrainians had fought and died in kyiv last winter , signaled to putin that the cunning , force , and intimidation may be winning the west ’s acquiescence in his subjugation to ukraine and the prosecution of crimea . delayed , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to force the association agreement to work , the eu has only whetted putin ’s appetite . europeans can not afford to take ownership of it . their hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the cold will cause them to forget their allies ’ security interests , a classic divide-and-rule strategy served chile . ukraine may now be merely passing through the eyes of a storm .
we should ask whether it makes sense to repatriate competences , and financial transfers , from brussels to westminster , or if certain powers and financing should be decentralized against regions and peoples . where possible , regional funds and policymaking bodies – including environmental regulation and oversight of farming , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional institutions such as the scottish parliament , welsh , and north irish assemblies , city mayors , and local government . such radical change – and matched in terms of the scale of the crisis – must be radical – will require nationwide discussion , which could engage through the people ’s constitutional convention . that convention should begin by exploring brexit ’s impact on regions . to this end , redefining the constitution for the coordination of regional interests and recognizing that the uk is a multinational state .
while most of its citizens will not realize it , the eu does serve as an inspiring sort of example . the prospect of eu membership has served as the most powerful tool in turning the candidate countries into an open society . the eu can not possibly take the eu as a world ’s leader . but it can set its example , both within and outside its own borders . as a result , the us no longer has a strong mandate to set the world ’s agenda .
like his old soviet comrades , he conflates athletic fame with military fame . this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for military fame . to be sure , putin regards the olympics – and , explicit , medals . that is why he personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 minsk games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth making ; he thought that russia won the hottest . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics forming the nucleus of the doping scandal . )
but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and storied bureaucracies , its trajectory has been astonishingly difficult time telling its business community not to do business with someone , especially an historic friend and ally . perhaps the true pragmatism of display in the case of north korea is the unwillingness to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and a internal fixation on itself . china ’s rise is one of the most studied developments of our time . it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization ; its trajectory so far has been far more impressive than that of any single north korean rocket . chinese leaders ’ overarching reluctance to engage in international sanctions is often attributed to their belief in judging actions by , say , or not working .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , producing a range of conflicting explanations . some attribute the drop largely to falling global growth expectations . others focus heavily on propping up america ’s dependence on oil and gas production . still others are suspicious of a tacit deal between saudi arabia and the united states focused on , among other things , weakening their political rivals , such as russia and iran . whatever reason for the decline in prices – which will most likely be found in some combination of these factors – the consequences are the same .
with the american economy now recovering strongly , oil prices should stay high or rise further , for the foreseeable future . the previously fashionable view that america ’s seizure of iraq ’s oil resources would bankrupt opec and send plummeting oil prices proven to be in nonsense . at around $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain stubbornly high even when a soft global economy means that world demand is actually low . for the time being , the global oil situation is especially intriguing . even with improved security , it will take five years to get iraqi oil entirely on stream .
a reversal of that process will probably not happen until the three key components of a banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are within a tangible reach . as with its predecessor the ecb ’s securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , of the european union ’s treaty of ’s ’s ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise to equal treatment with private lenders still lacks precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily vulnerable to a political backlash – witness the visceral reaction by ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . but wets also fit well with a large body of historical evidence that in times of crisis policymakers must focus on extinguishing fire rather than negotiating over who owns the water , and what its costs should be . the omt program will cause credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred over the past three years . after all , when markets really believe that the ecb would refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would run out of participating countries at the early signs that conditionality has not been met .
two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also put up constructive ideas for reform . for starters , bipartisan premium proposals , with seniors receiving subsidies for purchasing private health insurance , should be instituted . premium support can cut medicare spending significantly , because it establishes a framework for more efficient payment of benefits , driven by competition , and innovations in care and coverage . to allow individuals to prepare to cover their associated deductibles and copayments , health-insurance accounts – which are not covered by income taxes at a time when deposit is , and can be used tax-free anytime soon to cover qualified medical expenses – should be expanded and augmented . so far , the only american presidential candidate who recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who proposed modernizing social-security and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations .
silvio berlusconi , who will become european union president on july 1 , is a man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets paid off big . so , in the 1960s , he was the first to see that milan , then a conventional italian city where people went to work would become modern metropolises , surrounded by american-style suburbs . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that the italian state ’s tv monopoly will not survive , and jump-starting what has become italy ’s main privately owned media group . thus , his fortune began in the growth of real estate . but you do n’t win a tv and real-estate business without properly positioned political connections .
beijing – financial repression , government policies that create an environment of low or even negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating low-cost financing for government spending , has long been a hallmark of chinese economic policymaking . yet , with financing costs for enterprises trending up , this is finally beginning to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , made lowering the financing costs for companies , particularly for small , medium-size firms ( small , medium-size enterprises ) , a top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in prudent monetary loosening , which includes freeing up more funding for lending by banks that allocate some of their total loan portfolios to smes . at the same time , the pboc , through its “ pledged , supplemental lending ” program , has started lending directly to banks that pledge to make use of troubled real-estate construction funds available .
the countries with the greatest cause for concern about russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not on offer of nato membership . moreover , russia today is far too soft on threats , as the russian army ’s disastrous misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . someday , russia will become more powerful and , if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage a revival of imperial foreign-policy then , this would provide a powerful argument in favor of doing the same . yet nato expansion does not seem to make russian foreign policy more peaceful . indeed , russia ’s democrats with an enormous stake in a peaceful future are adamant that expanding alliance membership to central europe will insulate their countries from europe ; stronger russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad ; and , appearing to put the risk of russia at risk , provide a rethink of re-establishing russia ’s military might .
israel ’s leaders appear intent on gaining time tactically by resisting the soft power of american president barack obama ’s administration , and , strategically , by preparing the ground for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly prominent role . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiths , in which israel alone can depend on its comparative merits in the eyes of the cynical , realistic actors judged it solely on its own national interests . nevertheless , this assumes a small gesture toward the palestinians , whom israelis regard as so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement appears possible . israel might be “ “ “ “ europe , ” ” ” ” ” and its key ally might well remain the united states for many years to come ; but israeli leaders need to begin thinking about how their country can flourish in a post-western world . that world , by contrast , will be one where israel can no longer count on feeling the holocaust guilty of having the influence of major powers .
he can not find sufficient spending cuts ( magic asterisk has vanished up a conjurer in sleeve ) ; acceleration of gdp is nowhere to be seen ( a rosy scenario went bust ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit in a laffer hat ) . the performer explains that a deficit is all the fault of the us congress for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the invaders is to raise the budget deficit , because “ congress can not spend the money that it does n’t have . ” the audience currently is told that losing tax revenues and widening the budget deficit was the plan all along . a final trick , “ starve the beast , ” typically comes later , if and when the us president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do n’t trump reality . this rubs never works , of course .
on this reason , in january , one of the us initiated the notion that , beginning on march 21 , we display a flag on our houses , factories , and offices . on march 21 is spring ’s first day , and we would like to believe that the upcoming european elections herald a new spring for the european project . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around the symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is the european flag . march 21 also is the anniversaries of benedict , patron saint petersburg . in one of the darkest hours of the roman empire ’s demise , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarity .
in the united states , right-wing extremists have conducted far more attacks than islamists do . this fits into a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds are instantly categorized as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in a well resourced and systemic manner , whereas the violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies tend to be treated as an “ isolated incident . ” yet there is nothing isolated against such incidents in any case . the assault in christchurch was directly inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , with i being one of the few fortunate survivors . according to the 2018 global terrorism index , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or entities has been rising steadily since the terrorist attacks of 2014 .
the fruit of the franco-german partnership comprised europe ’s single currency , the euro . that modest , no-assuming role belongs firmly in the past , even though german power has still been matched by imagination . indisputably the strongest and most dependable among the 28 member countries lacks a vision of where beleaguered europe should be headed . the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is a fading memory because germany was still endowed with a comparably robust strategy for reviving the eu ’s prospects and popularity . after his birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , through which germany had now recovered from bonn to berlin , contented herself once with the lower european profile .
whereas the rest of the world struggles to raise its savings rate , as china , with its saving rate at more than 40 % , struggles to recruit its people to consume more . china has been engaged in what it could call “ vendor finance , ” ” ” providing cash that helps to finance america ’s vast american fiscal and trade deficits , enabling americans to purchase more of their goods than they sell back . but that is a strange arrangement : a comparatively poor country helps it finance america ’s war against iraq , together with a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people , while enormous domestic needs at home imply ample room to expand consumption and investment . in fact , to meet the call for restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate its consumption . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would minimize the need for “ precautionary ” saving .
selling the five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is seen as smart marketing , but lending 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at high interest rates is being viewed as exploitative . after all , both activities are financed by investors looking for returns relative to their capital , motivated more by profit than compassion . but , clearly , one is far less socially acceptable than another . a high pay earned through cosmetics or soft-drink manufactures attracts no attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor seems improper , if not immoral . still , pmfis did succeed by meeting a genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a fast-growing array of tasks , including some that requires sophisticated cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . experts ’ expectations have outpaced that of experts ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse impact on both quantity and quality has raised serious concerns . to listen to president donald trump ’s administration , one might think trade remains the primary reason for the loss of manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has proclaimed that a possible technology displacement by us workers is “ not even on [ india ’s ] radar screen . ” meanwhile , a consensus is emerging among economists that roughly 80 % losses in american manufacturing jobs over the past three decades were labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade approaching a far second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could do no wrong in economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan ’s competitive edge relative to the north atlantic across a wide swath of high-tech precision and multi-manufacturing industries that were producing tradable goods . they also viewed an economy that , having begun in the wake of world war ii , had far outperformed european economies ’ expected growth . and they saw an economy growing strongly faster than north atlantic economies when they possessed the same absolute and relative economy-wide productivity levels . a safe bet by the late 1980 ’s seemed that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue .
there are roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding about 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders of the old round , partitioned jerusalem . conversely , israel is also fighting two wars : just a war to defend its right to exist ; accepted in its integrity and security in the middle east ; and an unfair and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and jewish settlements located there . israeli state support for expanding settlements is substantial . amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the present palestinian-israeli war is in fact two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” and palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased in just a few of 144 settlements , and more than 7,000 settlers are in gaza strip alone ; in 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished land already suffering one of the world ’s highest number of denmark .
the market ’s ’s reaction has been to send spanish government bond rates even higher . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain , and , to a lesser extent , italy suffers a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are increasing the more visible . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . like aging cranks , they still try the tricks that used to impress , but that fail to deliver results – or , worse , prove counterproductive . at the same time , however , they have caused their touch to lose .
with asia riven by its territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will not be easy . in the 1990s , after us president bill clinton ’s administration contemplated how to respond to china ’s increasing economic might , some urged a “ containment ” policy . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire for china ’s neighbors to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would ensure future enmity vis-à-vis china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could help , as he calls “ integration and insure . ” but there are levers that can help .
for example , trump has undeniably succeeded in persuading some americans to view themselves as part of what is like a white identity movement . but that identity , and the manner in which its adherents frame their interests , could change again . interests and identities form dynamically , because politicians made their offers for representation , and the public responded . the depiction of a irresistible , populist “ wave ” ” was always misleading . farage did not bring about brexit all by themselves .
while the magnitude of many r & d organizations are bound to reduce such reforms , the complexities of governing , and maximizing the impact of this external-web of relationships , will require new skills and capabilities beyond and above those of excellent sciences . the resulting opportunities to expand far beyond traditional goods and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve to companies that offer a broad array of health-care solutions . they will make it easier to interactions across their networks to stimulate the growth of innovation ecosystems . these will include not just prescription drugs , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that support personalized medicine , as well as the so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness opportunities . ” the development and rewarding staff that possess such abilities will present an additional , but welcome , challenge .
the point is not “ to reach a consensus on which a model is right , ” as romer puts it , but rather to figure out which model applies best in a setting . and doing that will always remain a craft rather than a science , especially when choices must be shaped in real-time . thus , in contrast to the natural sciences , economics advances in science not by replacing old models with better ones , but by expanding its model of model library library , with each the shedding of a separate social contingency . the social world as a whole is different from the physical world because it is man-made and hence almost infinitely malleable . economics is not the kind of science , in which a single true model could ever emerge that works best in all contexts .
today , the agriculture sector accounts for just one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . india ’s legal protections of workers in india ’s formal sector go beyond those in most advanced countries , as will china ’s , with mandated requirements rising as a workforce rises . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will redistribute its efforts to build a flexible labor market , centered on the easing of antiquated and complicated employment laws . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that the indian government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . at an equally important rate , indian workers – especially the young – need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously .
taken together , this holistic approach is something new for china . despite significant political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments seem keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with changing domestic outcomes . brazil ’s ’s ’s government , for example , has promoted a program of “ investment partnerships ” to coordinate investment in the country ’s finance and transportation infrastructure . the new policy explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local firms in sectors like logistics , power , and information-technology systems , promoting interaction among the business community , community , and cabinet leaders . equally important , the policy also extends the availability of such financing to chinese firms , credits , and insurance to investors .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism – especially given accelerated growth in china ’s service sector – one of a consumer-led rebalancing blocks . ultimately , gdp composition will provide the acid test of whether china succeeded . but the key word here , then , is “ in the end . ” it is far too early to expect significant shifts in major sources of aggregate demand . for the time being , one can examine trends ’ potential determinants of chinese consumption .
many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a job threat ; and even in europe , ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for more protectionism . to be sure , the us presidency grants trump considerable power to shape us trade policy , allowing one can not ignore the possibility that he might pursue protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there can be no broad-based popular support within the us for returning to closed borders . europeans also hold large stakes in the us economy , and eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets currently are almost double those of the us . europeans , for their part , have made a move in the opposite direction .
at a time when he took up the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , the aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin ’s tune to the tune of $ 19 million . manafort has also offered to brief deripaska about what was happening during the trump campaign . like the other russian oligarchs , deripaska is n’t known to deal gently with the people who have displeased him . deripaska , who is charged with american sanctions , ended up retaining nearly $ 10 million in annual contracts with manafort . after pulling the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based staff , “ how are we using [ that ] to get the whole ? ”
kyiv – from cambridge , kyiv , i watched the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with delight and admiration . but , as another who led a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by a pragmatism , in the sense that regime change is only the first step in establishing a democracy that is backed by the rule of law . indeed , like my homeland , ukraine , which is now demonstrating , after revolutionary euphoria fades and normality return , democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . ukraine ’s first lesson for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not make democracy . egyptians and tunisians are rightly proud of their yearning to peacefully overthrow despotic governments .
that is the argument behind the world ’s largest project of biometrics , the multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and faces ) that affects more than one billion indians . nandan nandan nandan niloani , chairman of infosys who abandoned his job of creating the system , known as aadhaar , credits it with savings in india ’s government of roughly $ 9 billion , by eliminating duplicating and misleading identities in government recipient lists . increasingly , we use our fingerprints , or our face , to unlocking our smartphones , to pay more for shopping , and to board airplanes . protection against theft is obvious : what uses a phone , a car , or a ticket that will work only for their legitimate owner ? above all , biometrics can protect against theft of us identities themselves .
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at a moment of great alarm concerning the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met to discuss a historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves all over the world . anxiety levels may have materialized in governing board rooms and stock markets ; but the daily drama of survival continues , in fact , for many people it has deepened , at the villages and streets of the world ’s least-developed countries , especially in africa . the un and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of the economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world for a very long time to come . indeed , many of the problems that the london summit was proposing remain real .
were we observing the gaze of somebody with intimate knowledge of these catastrophes , which is yet to come ? or was she just the hottest girl in the party of the party , the one an avid adolescent asked to dance and then held on tightly ? roth skillfully stilled the tragic , comic elements of this phase , and we spoke about forces that might stand in the face of a dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first are sovereign people who have poured in the streets of every sizeable city in a country with the perception that they share total votes , not trump , who won the election . roth skillfully stilled the tragic , comic elements of this process , with a talk of forces that might be able to stand up for the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump .
and it ’s not as though congressional republican senators think they owe enough to simpson to swing a single vote in either the chamber of the legislature . he perhaps traveled his own path to damascus , come face-to-face with what he did and repented , and sought to correct some of the damage to america and its long-run economic-growth prospects he incurred . obama officials reassuringly assured me that the simpson possessed heart change ; that he was a smart person with an ingenious understanding of issues ; that he could sway reporters and obtain them to describe the commission of the under-type of “ bipartisan ” ( even though he can not sway actual legislators ) ; and that he social security asset to the commission ’s substantive work . still even in that case , naming those who are misbehaving to important high trust positions , and acclaiming to them as bipartisan statesmen provide the next generation truly lousy incentives . to be sure , simpson has had a great change in heart .
the oecd average stands at around 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , produce far less than 1.4 children per woman . nonetheless , the largest tfr declines in developing countries in recent years . what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average person of live births per woman above her lifetime . over the longer term , a population is said to be stable if tfr is to have a replacement rate that falls slightly above 2.3 for the world as a whole and somewhat lower , at 2.1 for developing countries , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most advanced countries now stands well below replacement levels .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation of regulation inevitably is bad for business , in fact , there are three major channels through which regulation can benefit an economy . one is the market-creating and market-increasing role illustrated by the standard of gsm . the world-changing reach of regulation implied enormous economies of scale in designing handsets and network hardware , so that prices fell rapidly , and interoperability between networks and across countries was far easier to accomplish . indeed , many regulations play this standard-setting role . by 2004 , there were over one billion subscribers to gsm ’s services globally .
laguna beach – when looking over prospects for the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the scale of which the world collectively has positioned a massive bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth , policy mistakes , and avoidance of market share accidents . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unhappy reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on them in the absence of some hedging – could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . an additional , more uncertain assumption underpinning the bet on more inclusive growth is that the eurozone and japan are coming to grips with mire of weak growth and avoid deflation , which , by spurring households and firms to postpone purchasing choices , would undermine already weak economic performance . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unhappy reality is that they are far from certain , and bets on , without some hedging , either could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first bet component , more inclusive global growth , anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with gdp of more than 3 % growth this year , bolstered by robust wage growth .
the two parties allowed the independent attorney general statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from some of the powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later . the two parties allowed the independent attorney general ’s statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later . clinton ’s high popularity rose following the impeachment proceedings had come to an end . republicans ultimately acquiesced with democrats ’ belief that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent attorney whose inquiry into clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier had led him to lewinsky . many worry that a clinton impeachment run would damage the presidency ; yet its primary impact on presidential power was the opposite .
most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) , which stood out for the heart of the brexit campaign . to be sure , establishment leaders worked for a long time to salvage their own skins , by ramping up criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but that merely put ideas to alternate policies out of reach , while causing voters to seek direct their opposition against the eu itself . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , the two major parties backed “ remain ” campaign , albeit divided internally . but the establishment parties also criticized the eu for the most part not losing sight of the benefits of membership .
and other emerging economies are unlikely to pick up the slack . brazil , which has been touted in 2010 as an “ emerging aids player , ” is now experiencing an economic and political crisis , as has south africa . the weakening of developing-economy incomes further fuels global demand slowdown , and the crash of commodities , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , has been catastrophic for much of the developing world . to set it off all , expansionary monetary policies that are adopted by the major economies are fueling instability . these challenges are being compounded by new financial regulations in the advanced countries , which are hampering flows of investment and finance to the developing world .
pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionary jihadi rebellion that has previously attacked military installations suspected of housing nuclear assets . while pakistan has experienced no nuclear violation , and the us government continues to insist that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about its future . in the event of a regime to collapse , a distinct possibility would be difficult to avoid the diversion of its assets or even due to the use of its weapons of mass destruction . for its part , iran appears relatively stable , at least when compared to its neighbors . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is much smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern .
those powers should make it clear that they will not reimpose sanctions , and that any american effort to impose its will through extraterritorial provisions – say , by using access to dollar clearing systems as a foreign-policy tool – will countered by coordinated international action . for the uk in particular , this may require accepting head-on head-on us foreign policy in ways that some devotees of us “ special relationships ” will find uncomfortable . but this was not a us-iran deal ; it was brokered by six leading powers and endorsed by the united nations . in terms of addressing climate change , the election of a man who purports to trust global warming is a chinese hoax created for damaging american business is manifestly bad news . yet global momentum toward addressing climate change can and must be maintained .
after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalating regional conflicts . that , in turn , would make a realignment of reform-oriented leadership in iran extremely difficult . ironically , in the pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by conservatives and hardliners , is actually comfortable in the region better than the present . at the same time , the most likely scenario is a combination of both dynamics . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments hew more closely to a reform-oriented pathway , it should be clear to all that a diplomatic work with regard to iran is far from complete .
in the aftermath of lehman brothers ’ collapse in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister giulio tremonti famously called for the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , what followed was a major recapitalization of italian banks , together with the creation of a “ bad bank , ” to absorb npls , was deemed unnecessary . ten years later , italy is no longer an envisioned land of prosperous banks and happy savers . the protracted recession and rising economic malaise have dented individual saving rates , while banks no longer hold the resources to provide a peace agreement to many retail investors , whose trust was sharply eroded . the implicit pact between banks and savers was broken at the end of 2015 , when four distressed local banks bailed out and leveraged shareholders took the hit .
many poles are wary of the church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy and are allergic to its aggressive presence in politics . thus , the person who spoke volumes about a future riding power saddled with the votes of the past . that link will dog kwasniewski ’s presidency . kwasniewski ’s strategy of seduction appealed to large numbers of the young and the middle class , but most of all to the peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s growing economy . it is a sad paradox here , indeed , that for many ex-communists in opposing the church bestows themselves as defenders of the liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting fervor .
a consensus has now emerged on the need to help smallholders , but the obstacles remain . “ partnership ” of donor ” can become a costly end in itself just delaying genuine action . perhaps the main risk stems from the fact that the “ aid bureaucracies ” are now trip through each other to try and re-engage their hands on the $ 20 billion in order to receive much of it through meetings , expert consultation , overhead , news stories , and further meetings . if donor governments truly want results , getting the money out of thirty or more stand-alone aid bureaucracies , and pooling it in just one or two locations , then the most logical being the world bank group in washington , and the international agricultural development fund ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these aid agencies would then take account with a few billion dollars .
they represent over one-quarter of the earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . after all , the brics economies are probably the single most important sources of future global global growth , and they certainly will continue to do so . at the new delhi summit , brics leaders will discuss establishing joint institutions , particularly the joint development bank , which can help to mobilize savings among countries . indeed , the brics may be dubbed r-5 as well , after its members have their currencies are in the real , ruble , the rupee , the renminbi , and rand . at present , the brics ’ countries represent a loose , informal bloc .
the key difference within the uk is that ukip gets ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( over 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rate ) . between now and may , cameron will have to persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling rising real incomes . on the other hand , he will have to change the conversation , in order to reassure voters that their economic future is bright . as it stands , britain , like their counterparts elsewhere in europe , feel over-taxed for spoiling public services that are continually cut , and being angry that their incomes have been declining for the past five years . as a result , many resent welfare beneficiaries , and fear competition for jobs – a sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe .
for example , some countries – china did , indeed , implement such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits . others , like the united states , did not , and so unemployment remains stuck at about 10 % . it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long , variable lags . ” thus , policies aimed at boosting employment by stopping , say , this “ calendar ” year need to be introduced about a year ago to have their full effect . this is not to say that the obama administration has made no effort to boost employment .
for more advanced goods , the eu ’s value added ( if an intangible part of a manufacturing process is in europe ) is quite high . many argue that these problems come at a price that ends up paying to ensure that companies do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies . but , while those measures have been involved , most probably have not been directed against anti-competitive business practices . sectors with greater human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example , have far higher r & d costs than the shoe industry , so manufacturing goods on assembly lines in a low-wage country are not likely to be terribly costly when compared to r & d and other intangible costs . imposing trade defenses against such goods , though legally warranted , is likely to create difficulties for globalized european companies .
after all , corporations have no conscience at all ; it is only the conscience of those running companies ; and , because america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear that conscience often takes a backseat to profits . america ’s legal system makes it certain that companies generating defective and especially unsafe product are holding liable to the consequences . likewise , environmental laws making firms liable for their toxic wastes , with many countries – including the american public – enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay ; ” that is , companies must pay for the damage that they cause . after all , corporations have no conscience at all ; it is simply the conscience of those running companies , and , because america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear that conscience often takes a back seat to profits . firms are in a far greater position than consumers to assess their product ’s safety ; we all benefit from knowing that our legal system provided corporations with incentives to make attention to the safety of what they produce .
nor does they deny the science because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ? for the american people , we do n’t need to look a lot out of such a mission . is it because those who resist such discussions reject the science of tackling climate change ? we do not need to look very far at such a mission . the case for acting on a massive scale to fight climate change has been floated in europe and even in china .
once again , iranian voters are poised to vote yes or no for the nice treaty . well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that seek to slither and through certain practical issues , while admitting the others . enlargement is the single most important item on the agenda of europe , and the nice treaty is its cornerstone . forgotten what that treaty is all about ? the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important , for it includes , among other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and power sharing among eu institutions , which will have to be firmly in place before the union can admit to its new members .
with the proverbial mutually beneficial ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it becomes clear that the growth patterns that have arisen over the past half-century have been little understood and rarely ( if it ever was that economists would predict . ) the key point here is not just that economists had gotten so much wrong ; it is that almost nobody got things right . at the peak of the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies began to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose asian poverty ’s causes , and to explain why its poverty appeared ineradicable . simultaneous to this , a vigorous consensus developed among economists and policymakers that favored import-substitution policies then pushed countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after beggaring their adherents , these policies are now totally discredited .
but wade had postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to june 2007 , and later , through a presidential decree in june 2007 . now , it seems , a presidential election will happen , but will the fair ? one month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who registered had received their voting cards , most of them held their seats . two weeks ago , there were nearly daily debates about the possibility of a presidential election being postponed indefinitely . on june 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” demonstration by opposition parties was brutally repressed by the police , and the three presidential candidates were arrested throughout the day .
princeton , nj – the crossroads through genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former president , larry summers , touched off a one eruption in 2005 , when he tentatively proposed a genetic explanation for the difficulty that his university was in recruiting female math and physics . ( he did not suggest that men tend to be on average more talented people in those fields than women ; but there is some reason for believing that men are more likely than women to be found at both the upper and lower end of the skill spectrum in those fields , – and harvard , of course – only appoints people at the bottom of the class . ) now , one of eminent scientists of our time blundered much more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable outcomes . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize in describing his dna structure , was in london to advocate its memoir , avoid dull ones and other lessons from life in science .
mugabe ’s first-ever such visit to china came in 1980 , just six months after independence ; made 13 more in his tenure ; and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials have become even more frequent , striking roughly daily every two years during mugabe ’s rule . on the other hand , kenyan presidents have traveled to china just six times over the same period , most recently in may 2017 . indeed , state visits in other direction have been a more uneven matter . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their visits to the press for commercial and military cooperation , and probably engaged in direct engagement with private chinese companies .
geneva – the world bank ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in number numbers . at the end of 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees have been experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : leaving them out of their homes for over five years , and do not have the “ immediate prospects ” of returning . school-age children form the bulk of the world ’s displaced populations . but for young refugees who are missing out on an education , a crisis can also be tracked by a irreversible metric : passage through time . of the 17.2 million people who the un high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) , roughly half are under the age of 18 , implying that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose their future as well .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused come under two charges : that he should have done more to stem the housing market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done more to stem the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . but how serious are those policy-making political crimes to which greenspan now pleads guilty ? against them one must establish what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden glove ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions in the course of his years at the fed . here greenspan holds his ground and pleads is not guilty . in my view , they are misdemeanors .
those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving the women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christians and arab democrats , and , of course , striving for a mere peace between israelis and the palestinians . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing more than a ominous caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggle . and it is better to be known by history if the us wishes to avoid repeating its ugliest heartedly . it is a campaign of the instigators that have no aim other than to discriminate amass , delegitimize , and vilify israel , which in their mind has never ceased wearing its yellow star . to activists of good faith , who may have been seized in the name of duplicitous representations of the movement , i would say only that too many noble causes are in need of help in allowing oneself to be enlisted in some questionable .
indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how a cell developed by reprogramming dna and cells , without altering their genetic structures , was gaining traction . likewise , in 1962 , gurdon finding that almost any cell in a body contains the full dna code permitted it to create a tadpole through cloning an adult frog . just over four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a way to trick a elaborate adult base of adult cells in mice into regressing to their immature institutions , forming stem cell lines . before that , stem cells – which can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaged tissue – could be assumed only from early-stage embryos , a practice that has fueled ethical controversy . it falls far too soon to discount genetics , however because the science of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms for converting genes into and out , thereby altering the way a cellular develops without altering the nature of genetic code – acquires traction .
the crisis in the mediterranean can not be piecemeal . the financial costs of patrolling its waters and rescuing those adrift are exorbitant . the loss of lives is inexcusable . claims could be prioritized and processed regularly , and refugees could arrive in europe healthy , ready to work or study . but we need not wait until the root causes of displacement – state failure and civil war – are addressed . the mediterranean crisis can not be piecemeal .
according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp stood at $ 6,725 in 1990 , rising from 21 % of per capita gdp to 21 % in the united states . that is roughly the same gap that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that are also among the 13 highly successful economies studied by the growth commission . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan , with its average annual growth rate , has been rising to 9.2 % over the ensuing decades , compared to just 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . to realize its potential gdp growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address the variety of structural problems , and develop its economy according to its comparative advantage . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between four nies and u.s. enabled nies to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % or 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should range from a similar 8 % to the 2008-2028 period .
the signatories agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and habitats , and by exploiting biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went further , committing themselves to aiming for “ a significant reduction in the current level of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains essentially unknown , independent scrutiny , and leaching . for a very low monetary outlay , and perhaps none at all on the balance , we have been able to conserve nature and thereby protect the foundations of our own livelihoods and livelihoods . that neglect is a human tragedy , and one that we are most vulnerable to it .
in netanyahu ’s own view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of this existential threat that is paving the way for the emergence of a palestinian nation-state . it remains to be seen if the abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state operatives at their center , such as hamas and hezbollah , will react the way obama expects it to do . it is because netanyahu is driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from ever acquiring the means to crush israel , that he may be amenable to a fundamental change in his position on palestine , provided that obama makes visible headway in his drive to halt iran ’s vast nuclear program . netanyahu also recognizes that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . as john kerry , chairman of the american senate ’s council of foreign affairs , put it , “ this peace process is not a one way of the street in which the onus falls on israel solely . ”
so we decided last year to find out whether the same resemblance between moscow and the new york persists today , or whether in the face of a revival of authoritarianism in russia nowadays , attitudes toward markets have become more adverse . we administered a identical questionnaire in the two cities in 2015 . the results for which we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january . just as imemo economists were predicting that a majority ( 66 % ) of those with a response to that question in moscow thought it unfair . but a surprise came : new york yielded an virtually identical outcome ( 68 % thought unfair ) .
in the latter version of the european economic outlook , differential credit risk is in place , and eventually bank runs , de-euroization , and default : a common currency stands at odds with member countries ’ needs . at the same time , the prognoses for every case starkly different from the us . in ex ante , interest rates converge , and default risk is nil , because , with the ecb ’s backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the american currency , the euro becomes “ local currency . ” and how often should the us hear about sovereign-currency debt restructurings ? like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries are ponder whether and not to bail out the southern “ emerging ” economies .
during us president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s district house and circuit courts were full dropped to its lowest point in more than 50 years . thus , republicans have a good chance of creating a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which can last for decades – especially if they win the presidency again in 2020 . that majority can erode the democratic checks , such as campaign-finance limits , which have been dealt a devastating blow by citizens of 2010 . during a 5-4 majority , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” ” ” ” and that any limits on the amount of money corporations could spend on politically motivated campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of speech . republican obstructionism has also put other levels of the federal judiciary at risk .
lopez obrador and his supporters can be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but in doing so , they are also unlikely to deride his government ’s policies . in fact , calderon ’s task will not be easy , either . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are obviously less vulnerable to the type of populist rule that we have seen in venezuela and bolivia .
madrid – next year will be crucial , for it marks the end of the current political cycle and the dawn of a new one . nobody wants the eu to collapse , owing to its citizens ’ disaffection . there is still time to react – by demonstrating robust leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies , but that the time is ripe and the clock to be ticking . next year will be crucial , for it marks the end of the current political cycle and the dawn of a new one . nobody wants the eu to fail because of its citizens ’ disaffection .
colombo , as china ’s economy slows and growth throughout the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge is to find ways to accelerate our already steady economic growth . nowadays , asians are witnessing , on nearly daily grounds , a fierce political underpins the tools and policies that helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , this year alone means that free trade seems to be the scapegoat of choice among a world ’s assortment of populists and demagogues . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome us economic ambitions the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power , or – in earlier decades – cheered on japan ’s growth and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea .
here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in . widely unnoticed , iraqi sunni and shia liberal/centralists have managed over the past few months to form a united parliamentary platform that abandons sectarian tensions over . this supra-sectarian platform calls for a central administration of iraqis ’ natural resources , and the postponement of the looming referendum on settling afghanistan ’s state of kirkuk . a change within the government is also noteworthy . more than 100 followers of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have allied themselves with their ranks . here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in .
so truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless for politics ; they are simply waiting to be a genuine leader . yes , the french are incorrigible by the welfare state . a variant , as it is , can make it impossible that the french would never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization . it does not seem that political fervor ; in rousseau and danton . the french do expect greater things from their government than from an integrated europe or a boundless world .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and aspirations running at an all-time low . warsaw talks are a staging posts on the path to a 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that avoids a dangerous climate deal defined as global warming of more than two degrees centigrade . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in poverty in the wake of more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , droughts , droughts , and storms . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem . but it need not be like this : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most muscular forces driving climate action , the billions spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders seemed to warn that overthrowing investment in megaprojects risks irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . “ every year , we are already consuming about one-thousand-fold planets of resource pay , ” ” ” ” the authors explained . “ an infrastructure decision is needed to alleviate , rather than exacerbate , that situation . similarly , the un ’s intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , which “ infrastructure developments and long-lived products that lock societies in greenhouse-gas-intensive emissions pathways , can be challenging or extremely costly to change . and , indeed , the g20 has put forward few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria for its “ wish list ” of mega-projects that every member country submitting to its east african summit in turkey in november .
perhaps the most telling recent example of the european central bank using forward guidance effectively was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy moves as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance on short-term interest rates . while the effect of this interest-rate policy guidance on the economy can not be fixed without additional data , there are a lot of arguments in his favor . the fed , for example , has pledged to keep interest rates low at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that has arguably kept long-term borrowing costs low . that pledge alone has stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically lowered interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries .
but iranians do have diplomatic ties with other members of their principal interlocutor in talks on their nuclear program , sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and renewed iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communications and close to the 44-day of 1979-1981 . yet , just when the us has adopted a “ bomb and a conversation ” approach with the serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america must be prepared to “ sanction and speak ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater room for an eventual diplomatic strategy . indeed , just the opposite response is likely , efforts to tighten sanctions further . this would not be an easy process , and could well leave considerable iranian resistance . first and foremost , the us should consider establishing diplomatic ties with iran and pressing diplomats to the ground .
to keen outside observers , the ipl has represented more than the sporting league ; it has signaled nothing less than a new india ’s emergence . at the ipl ’s web site , glamour , and excess lay an antidote to a hidebound statist mentality that has produced economic stagnation in india during the past . here was a venture opening new vistas for corporations , and firing young people ’s imaginations to emulate entrepreneurial energies displayed by owners , promoters , players , and fans . other countries followed suit , with those of tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . still , anyone watching the ipl might be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant form of the game , ” is in fact an american game intentionally rediscovered by indians .
at the 20th century ’s close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) looks more like a “ neo-feudal ” state than a modern society . this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” notion , modernity in romania goes merely to skin deep . for italy is a state where group , class , even individuals struggle for privileges granted , not according to talent and work , but rather according to the status of a group within which one possesses . state-owned banks , the state ratified public societies ( business unions , for example ) , large state-owned enterprises act little differently in romania today than the feudal guilds that behaved in medieval europe did . at a whim of the state , for example , they can be exonerated from paying taxes , or have their functions and work made unchallengeable by law .
in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan that called for the establishments of two states in british palestine . on the other side , diplomatic means may bring about the release of the israeli military , and placed a stop to the firing of qassam rockets from gaza into israel , a day occurrence that challenged the new israeli government ’s credibility under prime minister ehud olmert . yet the fundamental problem is that , up to every historical juncture , the palestinians rejected a compromise , and nation-building consequently failed . this was the failure , it was believed , that brought hamas into power . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority , established under yasir arafat , became another militarized authoritarian regime , very like in syria and egypt , and done nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees .
japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in their thinking , hard power in the united states matters more than its soft power , and their vision of an america “ tied to the leader ” is largely unchanged . in asia , indonesia may look “ europe ” ” ” ” ” in its obama muddled ; but it essentially represents an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing . for them , the us ranks above all the strategic counterweight needed to balance china . otherwise , and for highly different reasons , a majority of asian elites awaits the rising possibility of an obama victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension .
canberra – late last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump dusted off kindergarten insults at each other ’s group of – “ rocket man is on a suicide mission , ” ” reportedly trump ’s statement about kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” ” ” ” ” kim retorted , while seeking to reduce east asia to a post-atomic wasteland . but optimism about this turn of events must be tempered by his cautious realism . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are being met . north korea is a nuclear issue away from the hell , but from the end of the cold war . kim is reportedly prepared to denuclearize and eager to talk straight to trump outright .
they tend to be proactive and assertive foreign policies and seek more than middle-power status and scarce niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . such powers seek an efficient and constructive regional role , and perhaps by some instances globally . south africa seeks a wider , more influential role , bolstered by its obvious standing as a regional hegemon . nepad , a new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization intended to promote decent and reasonable standards of regional economic and political development , has stood at the heart of this policy . despite its domestic problems and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa remains perceived as an emerging power , comparable in status and an aspiration on , say , brazil , india , and nigeria .
indeed , turkey has never missed out on its chance to present itself as a regional power . it aspires to join the european union , and it would bring the eu into our three borders , even as the us , too , aspired to join a single day . immediately , in the wake of the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey proposed the black sea for economic cooperation . that year , after the american-led attempt to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement had begun to falter , turkey got the job of a mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the syria conflict . now , in the immediate georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have once again stepped forward to assume a leadership role in the caucasus .
indeed , throughout the region , apprehension is mounting that once foreign troops abandon , afghanistan will again descend into a civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back into power . like a neighboring country , india would face unsettling consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as an iran that does not sit by idly if sectarian strife intensified , and shia arabs become targets of a resurgent taliban . this is why “ bringing back troops home early in ” has become the premier objective of western policymakers engaged throughout the region . the west needs a way out before the bloodletting begins re-election again . my fear is that we failed to see the last targets of al qaeda or the taliban .
a law that applies to all other firms should apply equally to banks . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ lending to non-financial companies , as well as to private customers ’ current , fixed-term , and savings deposits by reforming the insolvency laws . a market economy must rest on the basis of an economist ’s economic principle of profit and loss . and governments must respond to the threat of banks by proclaiming a willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly . an economy with no bankruptcies , or the rule of law that applies equally to all is not a market economy .
that was not a good idea , because it led to massive ( with the passage of time ) of the debt crisis of 1982 . but the gross capital inflows are from an emerging-market to an emerging market , through large state-owned banks , which are now implicitly state-owned in both american and european hands . from the perspective of international investors , “ too-big-to-fail banks ” banks are the perfect room to park their reserves – for as long as the sovereign in question remains solvent . when a similar emerged in the 1970 ’s , so-called “ recycling of oil surpluses ” through banks in western financial centers extended loans to latin american , communist poland and communist romania . but , then , what will these banks do to fund itself ?
when given their way , diseases , despair , and death rush in their wake . companies in south africa stagger from losing so many workers to aids . to call aids is a foremost threat to the african development community . but transition plagues are more than a health crisis ; signifying a deeper malaise . so , set aside the fact that these illnesses are infectious and can be spread easily , or the notion that the fortunate bear some of the moral responsibility for the welfare of the poor and sick and merely consider the economic consequences of the transition plagues .
but while it would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made previously strategic mistakes . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far removed from the one source of tensions between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , ought to be delivered this year . but , with turkey having so far defaulted on its agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorism legislation , that may not happen – an outcome made even more probable by the us-led coup attempt . that is why the next few months , when turkey and the eu złoty from contentious issues are so critical .
moreover , during his recent election campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected , he would impede the establishment of a palestinian state within the west bank by “ controlling the entire region . ” we should take him into his word , the israeli people ’s party ( pa ) . nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has been enthusiastically promoting expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . as he is well aware , settlements are a physical roadblock in the form of a contiguous , independent palestinian state . so long as palestinians are oppressed , denying a nation-state of their own would be a conflict .
it failed to prevent the money supply from contracting in the early stages of the great depression . heedless of its responsibility as an emergency lender was allowed to collapse by the banking system . given such incompetence , it should not be surprising that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching . but these reforms did precisely the opposite course from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits for policymakers ’ discretion , more power on the board , and a greater role for the new york fed all to permit the federal reserve system to react more quickly and robustly in a crisis . when financial stability hung on the balance in 1933 , reserve banks ’ failure to cooperate prevented effective action .
the news was correct but misleading , because it failed to mention why so much inflation exists in america today . america 's federal reserve board pumped out trillions of dollars of reserves , but never held so many reserves that produced so little monetary expansion . pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page news story that monetary-policy “ doves , ” who warned that low inflation in the united states resulted in the better end of the “ policy hawks , ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , would unleash a faster price boom . neither the hawks nor the doves ( nor anyone else ) anticipated . were the doves right , or just plain lucky ?
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies and spacing births has been shown to reduce newborn and child deaths rates . in addition , cutting birth rates that are extremely high in many lmics would help reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems , by diminishing the cost of maternal and newborn health and newborn health care and immunization . in fact , this does not cost the lives of mothers alone . the guttmacher institute estimates that meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 infant deaths annually . by lowering the rate of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the rate of death from unsafe abortions .
against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking the fight against its enemies . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields considerable power . as defense minister , mohammad pursued saudi arabia ’s policy of supporting anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a pro-iranian war in yemen ( at enormous humanitarian cost ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including the denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . the saudis also recoiling under a flurry of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism .
the ongoing peace talks with the taliban , as well as america ’s impending reduction of america ’s military presence in the country , amount to an explicit recognition of this . the us failed to eliminate the taliban from afghanistan , fully disregarding the possibility that the country would once again become a haven for terrorists . at the same time , the us has achieved many of its initial core objectives . the response to the first question is both yes and no . the american civil war is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to declare an end to the longest international confrontation in american history before the 2020 us presidential election .
just five months ago in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 and the united nations . we had a number of experts , some 300 from the public and private sectors of 30 countries , attempting to provide a response to a straightforward question : “ what will it take to redouble private-sector infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ” the ebrd seeks to support training a critical mass of experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that certification could become as respected as qualification held by a chartered financial analyst , or a member of a project management institute . emerging-market officials earn accreditation by demonstrating their ability to apply their knowledge practically to it . one useful tool in the effort is so-called infrascope ; ” a benchmarking index coined by the economist intelligence unit that assesses emerging-market countries ’ capacity across the asia-pacific region ; latin america , africa , eastern europe , and the former soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps .
the obama administration has staked its reputation on gaining the israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on their security and territory . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements inside the occupied territories , a total breach of international law , and minimal peacemaking requirements in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the quartet ( the american , the united states , the european union , and russia ) . america ’s efforts , led by special envoy , george mitchell , have shown that america ’s current ruling coalition is incapable of doing the minimum necessary for peace . the results are mixed , at best . the palestinians have adhered to all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , which grants lip-service to a two-state solution , has yet to elucidate where israel ’s borders will be .
that is what happened in latin america during the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt-servicing countries in august 1982 set off a region-wide debt crisis . the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crises started in thailand in july 1997 with the baht ’s collapse , and spread quickly into other east asian countries . with it , crises spill over across borders , affecting entire regions , or even the entire class in major emerging economies , the crisis spill over . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt-servicing agreements in august 1982 sparked a region-wide debt crisis . the same thing occurred on the part of east asia in the 1990s : the crises began in thailand in july 1997 with the baht ’s collapse , and quickly spread to other east asian countries .
but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven assistance is ruled out from consideration , evidence points to a robust positive relationship . over the past decade , a joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor country initiative and expanded it , a supplementary multilateral debt relief initiative , has made much more progress on debt sustainability . as a result , imf even prominent economists , including senior staff members at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , arguing that failure to contribute to economic growth has become increasingly critical . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to boost aid effectiveness , progress has been modest at best , not least because average financing for projects has fallen by over two-thirds . debt is another side against the development-finance dilemma .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ 2012 primary election – which will , alas , continue to rage in summers – needs to be a frightening display of what america and their leaders have little awareness of foreign policy . indeed , ignorance seems to be trumping strength for candidates still on the race . understandably , post-debate debate reveals the fact that neither candidate seeking to challenge us president barack obama is particularly interested in the details of any one of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention crises that dot the international landscape , especially those that do not involve us troops . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some genuine intellectual heft by spin on issues like addressing china , punctuated by a brief depiction of its own mastery of mandarin , some other candidates responded with derision . to have even recognized a china perspective , the obvious fact seems to have been disqualifying for a huntsman who was quick to end his candidacy .
i helped to launch the first safe schools initiative ( farc ) , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , in nigeria last april . the agenda includes building better schools fortification , connecting schools to police stations by mobile telecommunications , and creating community security groups – – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – in order to build up safe education zones . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for at-risk and vulnerable children . a multi-donor fund established to mobilize $ 30 million from enterprises , the nigerian government and international donors , and a multi-donor trust fund was established at the un . now , the first set of schools has received financing , with the first cohort of at-risk girls being relocated to government schools in safer regions around the country .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) – it must address more than future greenhouse-gas emissions . they must also address the harm to their people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing .
as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just about 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter of ’s ’s ’s 4 % rise . rising food and energy prices outpaced total gains in nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while a continuing decline in home prices reduced household wealth for majority households . a one-year cut of the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook . that favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast the continued robust growth rate in 2011 , with more output , employment , and incomes leading to a further surge in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not materialize .
instead , we are left with conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people to access algorithmic employment ; that is , to use large data to match people with the jobs that they will need to remain consumers . for example , it is highlighting miami dade college-educated companies ’ “ programs in animation and playing development , ” to work with companies like pixar animation studios and google . likewise , toyota “ built its own advanced manufacturing technician ” program to provide a pathway to students seeking careers at the company . again , we are told that future labor-market participants should be equipped with job-targeted education and portable social-security loopholes to help trump from one automated workplace to another . when it comes to education , the report invites employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ”
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the status quo for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the status quo for many years to come . last year , ’s united nations report on progress toward meeting the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger actually rises , as does the number of cases from malaria that is coming . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the effects of climate change are emerging much faster than anticipated .
the basque country has established a program called local sdg 21 , which is designed to support the establishment of local sustainability plans throughout the region . as a result of the program , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such schemes , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to its economy ’s growth . now , these local plans drive sustainable development in the region , with knowledge-sharing among municipalities laying the foundation for continued progress . south australia , for its part , has developed australia ’s most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment , which is enabling increased renewables ’s share in power generation from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
during the 1930 ’s , countries that raised tariffs , and tightened their quotas , most were those with the least capacity to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that remained on the gold standard . in 1931 , after britain , and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility , allowing their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary us vice . in a desperate attempt to do either – anything – to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” obligations and importing quotas , in order to compensate for the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for homegrown reflationary measures , because they did little to arrest a downward spiral of output and prices . nor did they make it that way to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has stymied both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . nowadays , the clique that surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process begun under the oslo agreements signified for palestinians . hostage to an impossible coalition , and from the settlement movement of the free-doing fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leadership is severely compromised . in addition , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent the majority of the palestinian people nor to govern through democratic means . its palestinian counterparts , for their part , are barely on a better footing .
this has fueled a growing sense of hopelessness – particularly among men , who manifested in rising non-labor-force participation , aggravated health challenges , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries experiencing high and rising economic inequality have often faced political instability and political dysfunction . the result is a vicious circle in which government finds it increasingly difficult to do what is needed . yet government intervention is critical to tackle the challenges facing developed-country workers today , a fact that markets can not address alone . as policymaking becomes erratic , lose credibility and becomes chokehold through gridlock , growth suffers , the chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” ” ” while the arsenal is “ iranian . and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , remain divided by religious affiliations , celtic is catholic and rangers . vestiges of these markings remain : amongst amsterdam is still taunted by provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ” vestiges of these markings remain : angry and religion is simply not essential . the tribe can be a club , clan , or nation .
in the language of that agenda , “ no one should be left behind . ” it is also a question of spending more equitably . in a new report to be rolled back at the imf-world bank spring meetings , save children documents a glaring gap between health risks and grossly skewed toward the poorest children and resulting in public-spending benefits are often skewed in favor of better-off households . this flies in the face of a central pledge governments made in signing on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from meeting would benefit the fastest progress . the world bank could help to improve accountability for meeting that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to track and report the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are diminishing .
my personal memories at the time of north korea , now almost ten years old , are of a poor and depressed country . my trip took place in april 2002 in a rather optimistic time . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices have tripled , while electricity consumption has fallen by two-thirds since two decades ago . pyongyang , the capital , dark and barren , illuminated by cavalcade takes us from official housing to an opera house , but only to return to darkness after the us . kim jong-il was greeted with equal fervor when he entered the opera house that today marks the public mourning of his death .
in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paying back-office jobs have visited villages randomly over a period of three years . female employment rose , and women aged 15-21 had 5-6 % less likely to marry or give birth over to this period . the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower female workers to become complete and equal members of society is to break the cycle of early marriage and birth . such sweeping changes will not be easy to achieve ; but when girls are able to stay in school longer , and have decent job opportunities that are available after they are graduating , they are likely to marry and bear children later . but there are also more gender-related targets to consider .
though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , us vice president mike pence warned more than three weeks later that his deal would actually meet with libya if north korea does not reach a deal . vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan has delivered the northward furious response : “ do n’t hide our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” the north was not interested in a dialogue focused on coerced “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ” choe son hui , vice minister of foreign affairs , answered by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” when washington stuck to “ irregular and outrageous ” belligerence . the world knows all too well that our country is neither a libya nor an iraq that had miserable fates .
after almost 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated only by brief slowdowns in 2000-2001 – the united states accumulated an enormous stock of foreign liabilities , the equivalent of 25 % of its gdp . the result was a precipitous decline in the value of the us dollar , which had depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . with the us current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is rising fast . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner or later must end . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , about one-third of today ’s level at current-account prices , the rest of the world stopped funding it .
princeton – the united states has moved from the soaring us presidential election to the low point of a one short week in the presidential race . for many americans , the election has brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia has been an pointless , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the election underway and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of a larger whole : an america that lives up to its promises . that election was a reminder to many americans that the us is a country committed to and capable of progress , in a manner that sought , at first hand , to move forward toward an ideal vision . for many americans , the election showed what is best about a country , if only to follow up with a sadly familiar process of knocking heroes down their pedestals .
a first casualty of this would be whatever little scope remains for international political coordination . the other would be the world ’s international monetary system , with a more stable and stable currency system . indeed , one key reason for the establishment of the international monetary fund was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit objective of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this is precisely why the swiss move is coming as a surprise . it is true that the cfa franc has appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 .
the country ’s gdp unemployment rate is now at a record low , with gdp growing at almost 10 % since 2013 . likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it becomes clear why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany itself . calling the björn höcke , the afd ’s state leader in thuringia , for a 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the nazi era ’s crimes , and afd leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposing of ” germany ’s turkish integration minister “ in anatolia , ” repelled voters . the second frequently cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength .
enormous fines were imposed on some independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . in recent years , china and turkey – both olympic-level jailers of journalists – have ramped up their repression in recent years . just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing punishment of individuals and online media for the disseminating what constitutes fake news and information that disrespects the state . his incessant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ people ’s enemies ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred label of media : lügenpresse ( lies ) . china and turkey – both olympic-level jailers of journalists , for their support , have ramped up their repression in recent years .
without the benefit of trade , much of rural africa struggles over subsistence levels . bush might think that america is doing a lot to help overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minimal . blair ’s africa commission , just like the un millennium project , has found africa ’s need for some $ 50 billion per year in aid by 2010 . america ’s fair share of the total is around $ 15 billion per year . yet official american aid to africa stands at just $ 3 billion a year , with much of it covering pay for american consultants rather than investing in africa ’s ’s ’s needs .
indeed , north korea is now the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the united nations security council , israel , india , and pakistan . sustaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers on their nuclear triggers each other will be far more difficult — and the consequences of failure far more destructive actions . the danger , then , is that maybe we are quickly approaching a tipping point . how the world responds to north korea will most likely be influenced by the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test have been uniformly critical , culminating ( so far ) in united nations security council resolution 1718 that condemns the test , demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency , and imposes a range of military , political , and economic sanctions .
industrialist wilbur ross , commerce secretary-designate , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals . peter navarro , an economics professor in california at irvine , will become director of the national trade council ’s office – a new white house political shop to set up a par with the us national security council and a national economic council . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks in this respect . the titles of his two most widely held books – the death of china ( 2011 ) and a crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – speak volumes of his tabloid-level biases . ross and navarro have also been co-authors of a economic-policy position paper published on a trump campaign website stretching any aspect of credibility .
the euro-dollar exchange rate thus barely moved ; indeed , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the clash of interests among eurozone member states is a straightforward one . the ecb then proclaimed victory , withdrawing qe prematurely as the european economy slows . eurozone inflation became , once again , “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy decisions . but , because of the enduring threat of an exit from qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to sustained stimulus .
even after europe ’s empires have retreated , laws have still been exported to foster development in post-colonial countries . at the same time , experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law have rarely worked well . in many cases , however , these imported laws have been all but ignored , selectively enforced , or bent solely on form , rather than substance . western law , for centuries , came with colonial rulers . america ’s own antitrust law , when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general douglas macarthur , led by only six prosecutions in thirty years .
but other firms have been accused of having more interest in developing a “ biobank ” of samples and data than in genetic testing . as jesse reynolds of the centre for genetics and society writes , “ just as newspapers ’ traditional business model is to extract revenues not from their readers but from advertisers , personal genomics companies see potential earnings not from the consumers themselves but from the compiled databases , too , most likely in divesting access to them . drug companies and other firms may well be anxious to buy biobanks on which they can test their products for differential responses according to patients ’ genetic make-up . call for pharmacogenetics , ” the goal of supplying better-calibrated dosages and more effective treatments for treatments . there is surely nothing wrong with that , but it seems odd to have customers effectively paid a firm to privilege their dna to its database .
the question is whether the coupons ’ change of course , possibly coupled with an extension of maturities that would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and put it back on growth . yet , even with german-level interest rates , greece would still have to run a primary surplus of no more than 2 % of gdp – still a fairly large scale , and far short of today ’s fiscal deficits . and the european central bank would have far fewer excuses to dismiss greek bonds as collateral . and , with greece ’s face value unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger . european banks hold greek government debt might keep pretending that it is worth full value .
a combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals made it more difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for longer-term development . viewed in this light , the “ neoliberal ” reforms – such as rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – have made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . excessive fiscal and monetary expansion made these economies unstable , especially severe economic factors . current-account deficits have widened , leading to frequent foreign-exchange crises . venezuela is a case in point .
in fact , portugal is so specific to consumers ’ tastes that the shifts can indicate changes to a society almost instantly . so a “ casual ” manufacturing style has been adopted , similar to that of worn and broken jueds . movies produced for the sexual gratification of consumers expose cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . interestingly , many of the purveyors of pornography initially thought that better quality videos would make their product more desirable . on the other hand , high values in production actually have been less popular .
neither the clown nor the tycoon is well suited to the task of being a democratic leader . in doing so , clowns have always played a role in politics . brazil , does not seem to be aspired to lead any country . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have did the job and still do . yet he has never aspired to lead a country .
during an earlier era of urban-based dynamism , early sixth-century dynamism , rich merchant families built low rent housing that then allocated to the poor . one such project , fuggerei complex at augsburg , germany , still provides low-rent social housing to that day . in the end , city and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation will provoke a countermovement . so , by wanting to survive and thrive in today ’s highly egalitarian political climate , bold solutions will need to come up with bold solutions . if they price out , or otherwise exclude those who earn less , they will sacrifice the kind of openness that has made them attractive at the forefront .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the start of the twentieth century , have not pander to the almost one-half of voters that , during the dreyfus affair , were exiled in their view of the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling french algeria ’s proponents that he did not understand them at all . nor did the pierre mendès france in the 1950 ’s hesitate to tell the communists that he does not want their votes to upend his government . for what will be necessary to hold a territory that the republic has nearly lost to the fn , through the political boldness of a state that holds in short supply for a time . france must now recall those big moments in its republican tradition and hold them up as a model for today ’s leaders .
yet , with the end of the cold war , many assumed that its institutional embodiment – the north atlantic treaty organization ( wto ) – would fade away . it could no longer fade away than our desire for freedom may wane . that bond remains vital to preserving our values and our security . and we know that those landings created a unique attachment to our continents . it did not , because our bonds are based not only on common threats , but on our shared ideals .
i hope that this issue does not deride a chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to demonstrate to the world that their country has reemerged as one of the world ’s leaders . indeed , is it beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet , which recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? has the chinese , in so many areas , been so smart in the region . they have devised a “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . china does not itself benefit by remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s when discussing this issue .
in the uk , voters have been tasked with responding to the overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries are handed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . in fact , sarajevo – ever since the twin disasters of 2016 , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election next year – has generated widespread anxiety over a “ global wave ” of populism and hand-wringing over the follies of so-called outright democracy . ever since , calls have emerged to empower the “ gatekeepers , ” ” ” ” ” a courteous manner in arguing that unwashed masses should be held as far away from political decision-making as they can .
berkeley – tackling a problem is not enough . that ’s the message of two recent books that , collectively , tell you all that you need to know about the financial crisis of 2008 : what caused it , what can be done to prevent that from recurring , and why these things have done so far . in fact , you need to implement a solution – and be willing to change course if it turns out that you did n’t really know the extent of one ’s problems . the first book involves shifts and shocks , by conservative british journalist martin wolf , beginning by cataloguing the major shifts that set the stage for an economic catastrophe that continues to shape around the world today . his starting point is the enormous wealth gain among the world ’s richest 0.1 % , and by 0.01 % , and mendacious pressure on people , governments , and companies to take on increasingly unsustainable debt levels .
a second feature of the digital information age , a direct by-product of democratization , is information socialization . rather than capture our information directly from the institutional gatekeepers , who , despite often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards today , we acquire it through peer-to-peer sharing . this has their advantages , but it also carries serious risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like those usually enforced within established media organizations . without the traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse tends to no longer be based on a shared set of facts . such peer networks can elevate content based on patterns like clicks or engagement among friends rather than accuracy or relevance .
robert putnam , a leading scholar of america ’s shrinking sense of community , found that tv viewing was the central explanation for the decline in “ social capital , ” the belief that binds communities together . simply put , americans trust each other more , than they did a generation ago . time that used to be spent collectively within a community is now spent on social fragmentation . of course , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated . moreover , the heavy tv viewing has given way to social fragmentation .
in fact , this kind of dangerous , irresponsible action remains yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any assurance that it will become a peaceful nation as soon as it grows strong . lurking behind china ’s lackluster ambition in space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the military ’s inner circles of a military-dominated , whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . it flatly contradicts china ’s repeated assurances of china ’s leaders that china ’s rise will result in merely “ harmony between itself and peace against the international community . ” with the collapse of the soviet-era communist regime , america has continued to enjoy the predominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific evolution . yet , since the 1980 ’s , america has been ambivalent about its ultimate military and civilian utility by its space efforts .
illegality and wrongcaution were artfully cloaked as an incontrovertible , science tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” every so often a new , powerful new scientific formulation seems to have gone through an era of abusive application . distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny inscribed a dna molecule , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir choir , assert that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities . today , it marks the turn of the era of molecular genetics . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : all are said to reside in the genes .
around its picturesque garb , each cobblestone and ornamental façade has made silent witness to the bloodletting that has accompanied the empires ’ rise and fall . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; but , for five days each summer , it will host an alpha jazz festival – sponsored by a russian bank . yet lviv is also where one can find hope for europe ’s promise . at a time when russia and ukraine remain very much at war , policymakers , local citizens , ukrainian diaspora members , and even some russians have pack the streets of leviv to celebrate world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and geography location , ukraine is strategically vital towards the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge the full economic impact of president barack obama ’s full economic impact on the administration ’s implementation and proposed policies , but a tentative read indicates limited short-term benefits at large , longer-lasting costs . ( intervening in the contractionary relations ex post to enforce the demands of the union is the emerging characteristic of the administration . ) obama has outsourced the specifics of the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to the us congress , and , not surprisingly , old home barons of us pork and social engineering , among others . a few months later , a mere 4 % of the financing raised by the us federal government is brow-beating out with state governments across the board , for example , demanding that california rescind a small-scale pay cut for some unionized workers , or losing $ 7 trillion in stimulus funds . the administration is exploiting a atmosphere of crisis to enact a vast agenda to re-engineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to health care , energy distribution .
unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to push back sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of a all-out war will rise substantially . moreover , it is disconcerting that the trump administration hardly ever talks about upholding the postwar liberal international order . instead , it sees the world as being a zero-sum strategic competition , in which america should look alone for itself . as europeans well know , there is no way to build a wall on the mediterranean sea . to be sure , the american claim is stepping up its commitment to european security .
china ’s growth has been driven by labor-intensive exports to be more competitive through technology and knowledge transfers from american and other western european countries . this , combined with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high , and , more recently , excess savings ) has underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese companies . the old model has served both parties well over the last three decades , for the first time in two decades alone . accordingly , american employment has shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting higher incomes in america , too . meanwhile , america ’s consumer has profited enormously from the declining relative prices of manufactured goods in the economy ’s tradable side .
a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities , under president donald trump , demands that europeans should revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . when russia annexed crimea and brought war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . then came trump , whose administration withdrew the rug from under europeans ’ legs , abandoned american leadership within a rules-based international system , pursuing a kind of nationalist , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy . this is not the first time that nato seemed to have on its final legs . many came to the same conclusion before 2014 , when the alliance had little to say beyond the mission in afghanistan .
first , fiscal-stimulus policies that currently push american growth rates above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . by 2020 , us stimulus is running out , with a modest fiscal drag pulling growth down from 3 % to a little less than 2 % . second , because the stimulus was ill-timed , america ’s economy is now overheating and inflation is rising above the target . meanwhile , us inflation is rising in other key economies as well , with soaring oil prices contributing with additional inflationary pressures . america ’s federal reserve will thus continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current level of 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 ; this will most likely drag down short – and longer-term interest rates like the u.s. dollar .
increased sand drift have been one of the effects , highlighted during and after the first gulf war . indeed , us and british troops may have only themselves to blame . this is because , in the region , the desert normally has a kind of crpd , what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sand and clay particles , which baked together or sintered , through warmth and sun . sometimes this kind of crust is strong enough to carry a person , and sometimes does n’t , very much like the tough ice values that develops on snow climates . under the crpd , sandy particles are being loose .
other women , such as his self-identified mistress judith campbell , supposedly have sexual relations with mafia figures as well . this reappraisal of male sex privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s occurred in other arenas as well , reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation ’s image from a charming playboy to a dangerously compulsive after the fact . likewise , the numerous “ mad men , ” ” ” ” with his dashing advertising executives consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs the emptiness and obtiveness of early-1960s ’s male sexual privilege . popular series like “ good wife ” shows both the pain and the suffering of various political spouses , who are expected to hold a stiff upper lip and ladylike demeanor in facing behavioral double standards . the sense of entitlement that sustained male fecklessness is being eroded steadily has been steadily since , a process that , like so many in american culture , played out on tv .
ltcm illustrates some truths about financial-market crises as well as how to manage them . amazingly , chase ’s manhattan report shows that it has had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , roughly 2 % of the bank ’s total credit and credit exposure to just a one hedge fund ! when push came to shove , with ltcm on the precipice of collapse , the federal reserve has not simply let “ market forces ” take their course . one important truth of recent year is that financial market problems lie not just with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks that display uncanny capacities to generate trouble through an overly risky gamble , whether in loans to emerging markets or likes ltcm . those banks that had lent huge sums , mostly unbacks , ltcm , are those that put about $ 175 billion of short-term loans to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) , and then abruptly reversed gear , yanked tens of billions of credit in 1997 and 1998 .
cambridge – public-private cooperation , or coordination , receives considerable attention nowadays . even the world economic forum was transformed into “ an international organization for public-private cooperation . ” to be sure , private-private-sector coordination was the essence of economics for the last 250 years . a plethora of centers for studying business and government relations were formed , and researchers produced a large design literature , analysis , and evaluation of public-private partnerships . whereas adam smith started us , in an optimistic belief that an invisible hand would look after most coordination issues , in the intervening period economists discovered all kinds of market failures , informational imperfections , and incentivizing problems that gave rise to rules , regulation , and other forms of government and societal intervention .
for starters , a broad array of studies , from the work of the late economist david landn to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson , finds that institutions and political culture are the single most important determinants of long-run growth . the president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading an effort . while cynical as it may be , some argue that the new program is merely an excuse to cut funding from current retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively enhance re-education and training is a good thing to do . but , while the trump administration has consolidated america ’s economy ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of ledger is , rather , rather bleak . recovery from the damage trump ’s damage is inflicting on institutions and political culture within america can take years ; if it does , the economic costs could be sizable .
putin is baffling about how to counter the threat posed by sluggish growth . his main proposal so far has been a “ eurasian union ” – an intensive version of the current customs union between russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . indeed , most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth at a rate above 2 % , without another sustained rise in the price of oil . this would provide a platform for a renewed trade , transportation , and other links among the ex-soviet countries , thereby capturing the regional markets for russian products , guaranteeing russian jobs , and reassert russian political clout in its ancient neighborhood . but 2 % of growth ( a good measure for the advanced economy ) would represent a major boon to russia ’s standing and to putin ’s personal prestige , and could jeopardize domestic stability as long as jobs disappear in critical manufacturing sectors .
the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of this potential horrors to be visible before a takedown – so that it can not be blamed . with national supervisors often inclined to submit a rosy image of their countries ’ institutions no longer to the task , one can hope that the assessment would prove more robust than earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those trials , in contrast to their proper equivalent in the united states , have failed to restore confidence . the few banks that have gone with flying colors have soon obliged , at least for now , to raise new capital . but the creation of a european banking union has not been europe ’s only important financial regulation since the crisis .
the key to securing europe ’s social-security systems , and thus its social model , is faster growth . not all succeeded ; the successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . and , again , it is hard to see how more europe would actually improve the situation . the obstacles to growth are well known and have existed for a long time without falling out . the reason is quite simple : had there been a politically easy path to generating growth , it would have been implemented already .
many state-owned firms were privatized for ten times the sums yielded in asset sales under edvard shevardnadze 's previous administration . but an oft-repeated lack of transparency allowed russian companies and their subsidiaries that are registered in third-party resources , to snap up most new offerings . gazprom 's goal is to control not only georgia 's gas industry , but also the one pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgian and armenia . gazprom 's goal is to control not only georgia 's gas industry , but also the one pipeline that feeds russia 's gas exports to both georgian enterprises and armenia . gazprom was a russian holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) that managed to acquire a vital gold mine , and then to half the plant producing gold alloys .
a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) , and released earlier this year , demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s deadliest crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died due to the war , as well as its lingering impact over the past decade . yet , even in an era when combat is fewer acute in congo suffers from the indirect effects of war on its hands . as always , the principal victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . a renewed fighting , in the form of a promising peace initiative , known as the “ goma treaty , ” means more civilian deaths , and little chance of normality returning to eastern congo . today , a quarter-million displaced people arrive , almost half on territory under rebel control and almost no access to aid .
trade , of course , requires more than the absence of conflict . like all economic activity , it flourishes when property rights are respected , taxation becomes efficient and purposeful , credit-letters are revered , tariffs and other barriers are removed , and so forth . so it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization that emerged after decades of world war i and the last 75 years were characterized by a balance of power and hegemony , respectively . henry kissinger once said that “ peace can be achieved solely by hegemony or by a balance of power . ” maybe the same could be said of trade or even of globalization alone .
externships offer transparency and accountability to educators , and imbue the fearsome spirit in their students . for smes , the externships provide much-needed creative manpower ; and they can provide the backbone of the workforce . for larger corporations , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . when properly integrated into a student ’s education system , externships can provide the competitive edge in college application essays and , at campus , or alumni interviews , which admissions committees are increasingly using to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from competing top-scoring hordes . our education system can no longer afford to wall herself out of the industrial world .
yet a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in middle-income households with per capita income of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same norm that the world bank is uses to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . finding shelter in the united states on the grounds that incomes are so difficult that $ 2-a-day poverty is almost surely a far worse outcome for the us , more than $ 2-a-day poverty rate in india or afghanistan . towns and cities that lost their factories to globalization also lose their fiscal foundation , and are finding it difficult to keep quality schools – the entire escape route for generations to come . elite schools recruit affluent people to pay their bills and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among a white working class whose children find no place in this brave new world .
still others might use services like intercom to obtain insight into its users ’ interests – from their preferences in the music to their favorite hobbies , in order to offer more market-service services . once a company identifies which users possess the most influence , well-known bloggers , for example , can offer better treatments , in the hope that they can recommend a service . indeed , many online service services now offer connections to users with facebook friends or linkedin links , or it can recommit to activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location . website startups may even want to check their users ’ profiles on angel databases by viewing them as a potential source of funding . some people do n’t want this type of focus , whether because they are already well-known personalities attempting to fend off adoring followers or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unfamiliar entities knowing so much about them .
french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged status is under attack , owing to the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks and legislation that have increasingly rigged the way out of life . but fillon ’s supporters , too , have rejected multiculturalism , and have responded to their status anxiety , by dismissing the expertise . with france becoming less catholic , and america becoming more heterogeneous , their “ zombie-” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance showed , they can not be written off just yet . at the same time , french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu , with its conspiracy theories , talking shows , online trolling , and fake news that fueled trump ’s campaign . to many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage has been a tipping point , while left-wing catholics find themselves crammed out by the right .
and vice versa when the authorities are trying to cool the economy by making the central bank . for better or worse , our central banks have run the quantity and flow of money , by withdrawing or adding paper assets to the stock that private banks have held . at the same time , as it stands , the banks have more cash left to lend their funds . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money it shifts from its bank account to its libra wallet , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy . when it comes to stimulating economic activity , central banks buy from private banks ’ commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets .
with the american invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that as many as three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliances dating back to the american revolution , and including two world wars , france always carried a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward america , and the war in iraq was not the first time that a controversial us security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the united nations , while french president jacques chirac felt reaffirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for an inward-looking world . polls show a similar reaction in the aftermath of the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in europe in early 1980 .
after all , a fundamental tenet of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate . they can do so in a variety of ways , such as through investments in education , financing of scientific and technological research , and by building efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not a way to go , not least because it reduces the revenues needed for such investment , especially in developing countries , which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , are losing out on more than $ 200 billion a year because of tax avoidance by multinational companies . when countries establish tax regimes that are effectively specifically meant to steal tax revenues from others , the result is also fewer money available for education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and measures to address climate change . this should not be allowed , and multinationals should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are cut .
what ’s more , rapidly expanding etfs coincided with bull markets . index performance has largely dictated security selection , and asset allocation has meant little more than accumulating into stocks , bonds , or credit . but the end of the day , those days are likely to come to an end . further sustained market-oriented advances are unlikely , given already-high stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened policy and political and political uncertainty . broad market returns are likely to be lower , with volatility possibly more frequent .
cambridge – economics teaches that measure an individual ’s wellbeing measure is the quantity and variety of goods that he or she can consume or can use . no one can deny that this consumer – and market-centric visions of the economy have produced a large amount of fruit . consumption possibility tends to turn maximized by providing firms with the freedom they need to embrace new technologies , division of labor , economies of scale , and upward mobility . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and object of analysis . consumption is the goal ; production is the means by which it is forced to it .
the fragmentation – meaning the end of the internet – poses a real threat . some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . but further expansion is not guaranteed , either . a fragmented “ splinternet ” ” would be hugely costly to the world , but that is one of the possible resolve outlined last month in the wef ’s global internet governance report , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the internet now connects almost half of the world ’s population and another billion people , as well as some 20 billion , in global cities , with an alternative to connectivity in the coming five years .
that has sounded like a comfortable experience , perhaps it is the experience of learning , to young men who otherwise would have remained idle and unemployed . but it was not a great inspiration for the future that may have helped to explain roosevelt ’s inability to end america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , today ’s apparent relative strength in america ’s economy may reflect some of the highly visible inspirations . likewise , much of the rapid-ahead in communications over the past few years reflects innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example , owned by indigenous americans . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , helped drive down energy prices and wiped out america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s dependence on foreign oil .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies , a fraction of the unpaid care work that women in the developing world have performed . this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private-sector equivalent of nongovernmental organizations . it will require additional investment ; creating job opportunities for women ; and putting in place measures to help women migrate to more productive work . mgi has identified a number of interventions around the world that can readily be deployed more broadly . measures that have proven to improve access to education include building more secondary-school enrollment , ensuring that girls are provided with on-site sanitation facilities in their rooms , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to boost enrollment and keep girls in school .
heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , it is beholden to their own interests , and does not always have the political backing that it needs to get the job done . other major multilateral migration agencies , the iom , assists when reporting returns to migrants , asylum-seekers , and internally displaced people to their destinations , or to any other country or regions that agreed to accept them . but , like the unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . the unhcr , as it is currently conceived , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency that it claims to be . the iom , in particular , lacks a mechanism to harmonize whether nation-states use coercion – prohibited under international law – to repatriate or rearrange refugees .
with political gridlock blocking appropriate fiscal responses following the 2008 financial crisis , the united states congress failed to pass an annual budget , a basic component of responsible economic governance over the next five years , forced central banks to bolster economies artificially . to do that , they relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures like quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation . beyond being incomplete , this approach has implicitly favors the wealthy , who are holding an disproportionately large stock of financial assets . meanwhile , firms have become more aggressive in their efforts to cap their fiscal bills , including through so-called inversions , by moving their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions . as a result , most countries are confronting a trio of inequalities – in income , wealth , and opportunity – that , left behind , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences .
all told , trump has governed like a populist plutocrat – that is , a pluto-populist . but why does his base allow him to get away with pursuing policies he mostly hurts ? according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote on the name of nationalist and religious sentiment and a antipathy toward secular coastal elites rather than their own financial interests . and even an administration plan to favor the skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of legal migrants elsewhere in the countryside . but how long can anyone expect to support the divine and weapons ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ” ?
the holiday won its current constitution in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians deemed it either special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . sadly , february 23 is not the red army ’s only remaining relic . whereas all other large european nations abolished military conscription in the last few decades , as a system in which all physically-cally-fit , male citizens from 18 to 27 must serve for 12 months . another soviet military legacy is the system of obligatory conscription , as a system for obligatory conscription . exemption is bases on medical conditions , giving university students and staff to certain organizations ( such as the police ) .
paris -- tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the grips of deep and profound crises , if perhaps one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest of north african countries , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice that of belgium , the netherlands , switzerland , and luxembourg – and comprising a population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation in its climate , history , and culture . it was once a pillar of cultural dynamism and influence – or influence – in the roman republic and empire . the first african region to be christianized ; it was the land of the saint augustine , and a major source for catholic evangelism in africa .
true , any arab – indeed , practically everyone – knows precisely who is to blame for khashoggi ’s disappearance : saudi prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact is that a well-known cartoonist has had to mask the culprit ’s images speaks volumes about the fear mongering about independent journalists in the arab world . in fact , khashoggi ’s disappearance has only deepened their anxieties . since the failed arab spring revolutions – which tunisia is its only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists who toe the official line while also punishing those , like khashoggi , that dare to speak truth to power .
first , there is a need for greater information and transparency regarding complex assets and who hold them . second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than narrowly the-counter markets ; and these should be standardized in a way that allows liquid secondary markets to emerge . third , we need better supervision and regulation of our financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . fourth , the rating agencies ’ role needs a rethink , with more regulation and competition introduced . making financial liberalization a difficult task , but its downside effects – including more systemic risk – will require a broad set of reforms .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . arabs must take charge of their own agendas and become a primary force that defines their future , and that of their countries . for starters , they need to develop their own national-security capacities , defend against non-existential threats , and hegemonic expansionism . of course , they should continue engaging with the outside world , strengthening their strategic relationships and alliances . but they also need to become less interdependent to others .
this wisdom prevailed not only within india ; it influenced policies accordingly across a wide swath of developing countries . a new paper , now by servitude another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that labor market rigidities ” depress output and employment . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in certain states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that had not adopted such regulations . this finding came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial expansion , and that the path to increased output and employment in manufacturing is to promote more labor-market “ flexibility , ” by repealing laws that protect workers . one of the empirical investigation most frequently cited for this argument is paper by timothy besley and robin burgess , which uses manufacturing data across indian states for the 1958-92 period .
britain ’s economic prospects have increasingly depended on events beyond its shores , whether solely across the english channel or in china or california . swelling migration pressures to overwhelm any pretense at border controls . security fears increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies simultaneously . britain ’s environmental hazards have increasingly depended on events beyond its shores , whether merely across the english channel or , in china or california . a recent political cartoon showing british bombers withdrawing from the eu mission , with one pilot pointing to others , “ this looks a long way to bomb a few young men of south london . ”
those laws , already passed but not completely implemented , should have been the catalyst for a new , intra-country institutional arrangement , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and the people , and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . given this history , it is baffled that in his day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and cooperation for all to work together for venezuela ’s good . in the meantime , all the bodies of public power – all of them everyone – now obey chávez . yet , he emphasized that the people voted for chávez and his socialism . after this election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , chávez proposed deepening his revolution with a new law on the organization of society and the economy .
our bodies have elaborate repairs systems that maintain the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of damaging agents . our bodies have elaborate repairs systems that maintain the integrity of our genes even in the presence of agents . occasionally , though the damage does not be corrected , the damage remains ongoing . genes may be corrupted by environmental factors like radiation or chemicals . they can also be degraded by products of routine metabolism .
following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a powerful democratizing force , allowing innovative startups to compete against established firms , disrupting entire industries , and creating new ones . but , as some of those startups have grown up to the behemoths , they have reversed this force at its head . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now owned it , and rather than democratizing the us economy , the internet has more than ended up exacerbating the world ’s underlying inequality problem .
for , though america has drawn strength from the “ melting pot ” ideal , and president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high-water mark for diversity , americans have often displayed xenophobic mistrust of immigrants who draw too close to power . in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu has described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities in our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that , by “ working together , we can make more good than [ by ] acting alone . ” “ but the developing world can make a lot worse if it is more difficult to make a lot worse . ” still , one is left wondering whether this new kind of collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove strong enough to cut through not just a long history of distrustful interactions between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s abrupt economic rise ? in china ’s case , the fear of divided national loyalties and class-” fifth pillars has been strong .
five years of falling gdp have depressed tax receipts and boosted transfer payments . this also implies that if greece were to escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp . the imf forecasts that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays raised the overall deficit by nearly 5 % of greek gdp . greece ’s economic weakness raises its current level of deficit reduction . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during his visit to india , “ india and china can together reshape the world order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a giant shift away from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i tested india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i struck my indian hosts ’ fixation on china as india ’s number one foe . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , defense minister referred to china , and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee referred to china as india ’s number one enemy . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts the need to learn from china .
while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards at the center of the crisis , its order that the banks increase their capital is fully justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of little three-year liquidity at near-zero cost . given that hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would not have worked easily with it . the head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has issued new , non-bank-centric regulations . fortunately , there is a good independent test for this strategy . fortunately , we do have a good independent test , so far .
second , and partly as a consequence , virtually every eurozone country ’s public debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . it is still difficult to think that the unthinkable , much less work out the details of it , but that any rational player must now consider the possibility . third , financial-market participants , and increasingly , actual firms are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not an end in itself . while the need to price risk was different precisely in practice , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-gdp ratios almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be judged as higher implicit risk . but now even the mighty bund has started to suffer its heightened market anxieties .
indeed , by chance of sunday ’s young football fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev of president dmitri medvedev ’s administration was meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . one quote coming from surkov that day leads him to be especially telling : “ to make ready elections , to train your brains , and to muscles . we can always count on our support ; we can always count on it . that meeting i found ourselves as part of a rally , led by surkov , of russia ’s youth-movement activists . those arabs were put in a position to use outside kremlin walls that daytime .
last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world sticks with “ business-as-usual ” policies , ” global temperatures could rise above 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c increase deemed to be “ safe . ” that prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to contest the un ’s political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to achieve a new global climate-change agreement by 2015 . today , that sentiment is astonishingly relevant in the global economy alone , becoming green that is the problem . but , just as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by significant investment in areas such as smart grids , energy storage , and renewables . hong kong – sesame streetwise street ’s kermit frog once lamented that it can “ not easily be bein ’ greenpeace . ”
created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect realities that have long ceased to exist . after wwii germany and japan were the defeated aggressors ; the soviet union posed a major threat ; and , as a result , china was engulfed in a civil war , which would bring to mao ’s communists into power . much of the so-called third world either was recently independent or remained colonies ; all it was extremely poor . looking for a new imf managing director provides a keen reminder of just how unjust the needs of today ’s international institutions . the organization and the allocation of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflects a global equilibrium that vanished very long ago .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron had made a last-minute appeals to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on people ’s movements in the uk . merkel rejected , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . the sad irony is that merkel is currently confronting the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in the united kingdom ’s 2016 brexit referendum . immigration tends to be good for the economy over the long term , particularly as pensioners ’ ratio to working-age people rises . but when the level of immigration exceeds a country ’s capacity to absorb new entrants , severe economic and social costs can be had , at least in the short run , significant .
the now-odious debt idea has been revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer and , in a 2010 report by the center for global development ( cgd ) , proposing that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of distortionary obligations . in effect , this is exactly what the trump administration has just done . the cgd ’s report proposes that the regime should consider odious insofar as it abuses human rights-related human rights , employs military bullying , glorifying electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates public funding . in effect , this is precisely what the trump administration has just done . such a declaration lowers the flow of financing to distortionary regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments forsake their countries ’ precursor ’s debts without incurring the legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts refrain from enforcing debt contracts ) .
that cleared the way for the return of bhutto , who remained prime minister until 1996 when she was dumped once again – this time by her own pakistan peoples ’ party ( ppp ) . but his confrontation with the military intensified over the years , resulting in another coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , and fresh elections brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who was assassinated earlier december for the presidency . in 1997 , it was sharif ’s turn back . ignored constitutional demands , zardari defaulted executive authority on his prime minister ; instead , he expected the two prime ministers who had served under him to follow through on his orders .
in egypt , for example , the fertility rate declined from 4.8 % to 2.9 children per woman in the past 15 years . over the same period , tunisia ’s rate of population growth plummeted by more than 50 % , to european levels of slightly more than two children per woman , while per capita income grew at an impressive annual rate of 3 % . wealthy countries ’ shift from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on profound demographics -- occurring one year in western europe , and throughout east asia this century -- in which fertility rates fell dramatically . the past two decades have witnessed similarly steep birth declines in poor countries that are now showing solid signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate declined from 4.8 % to 2.9 children per woman in the past 15 years .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to create a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , now meeting with trump ’s american-led indo-pacific initiative . both countries are also on similar paths militarily . it has built and initiated its first aircraft carrier , and has plans to launch more of it . while china still has much to catch up to it , its overall defense expenditure is already second only to america ’s . it is developing and deploying an anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defense system .
one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries currently play there . america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous levels of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , as no other external force for order has become available . the resulting vacuum has been filled by the various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession experiments by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . indeed , america ’s partial withdrawal implies that the end of enforced stability in the ancient middle east will not have spared the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq already suggest as much , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly uncertain .
that means that the chinese economy can reach its all-important labor-absorption targets – in terms of jobs , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with a far slower gdp growth rate than in the past . so , why are the services jobs so critical to china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than countries ’ traditional sectors of growth . in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same targets of labor-absorption that required 10 % growth under china ’s previous model .
to be sure , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , and spain giving itself a opting for the status quo , or a gentler vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government has embraced . for the eu , the united kingdom now seems certain to hold ; until 2016 , a lingering exit referendum in the eu and the far-left , determined , as in greece , escaping the rigors of economic reform could win spain ’s general election next autumn . but a worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece leaving the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk leaving the eu ) , and the spanish election result that is reminiscent of greece ’s gdp . should such a perfect storm arise , the eu ’s very existence would undoubtedly be in doubt , because other member countries would consider , or start , their own post-eu futures . indeed , it would strive for all euroskeptic and nationalist forces within the eu ’s member states , together with their growing success , to force their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the eu into a central issue in domestic political debate and election campaigns .
in fact , oil prices are at historic highs at a huge rate of historic highs . after all , aid to the poorest countries remains stagnant , despite years of promised higher growth . and yet there have been a difficult road in this gathering storm to find a single true accomplishment of the world ’s leaders . climate change negotiations are going around in circles , and this time . leading economies are entering recession in the developed world .
in just a few short years , the pro-market and economic-opening package seemed out of sync with the rest of the world . deglobalization , nativism and protectionism set a new tone for policy , with the frustration and uncertainty of overshadowing hope . instead , they paved the way for their defeat . two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri ’s victory presidency on his promise that a fiscal adjustment , and opening argentina up to the world , would spur economic revival . frustration even afflicts the region ’s paragon of open-market policy , chile .
this drive toward off-the-the-grid , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there/your-own , solar-driven collective fantasy is inevitable : americans were pumped up in the hope that more consumption would make them happier and instead walk away from a debt-fueled pile . little wonder , then , that a sort of survivalist chic became an updated version of the radical , communal chic in the 1960s . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” ” but that now is the morning after . americans lost their faith in those who , in boom times , purred , “ trust us . ” they were asked to admire the peak of the income pyramid , just to find out the sight of the pyramid schemes .
indeed , it has repeatedly displayed a knack for disaggregating its strategy , and then pursues each element separately in such a way as allowing various pieces to drop out with a minimal level of resistance . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of initiating a war on its adversary , while seeking to lay a foundation – a brick by a hegemonic middle kingdom . this shrewdness not only perpetuates its opponents ; it also subverts the relevance of american security assurances to allies , and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . chinese leaders ’ stated desire to settle territorial disputes peacefully simply means gaining a position powerful enough to pave the way for their deployment without resorting to shot . to be sure , china is wary of avoiding any dramatic action that might become a casus belli by itself .
los angeles took decades to introduce pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , were converting rapidly into a perception of benefit . these cities learn from one another , constructing for good ideas and jettisoning the poorer . fundamentally , this is the right approach to manage systemic risk and transform into complex , interconnected systems and management successfully , though it has all been dent in the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . if successful , all of us want to join the club , it will put in place . in the decades ahead , we may see a global system of globally interconnected , sustainable cities emerging .
new york – a few years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with chinese president xi jinping in beijing the great people ’s hall . when it comes to the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states , the united nations – need not fear the “ thucydides trap , ” so named for a greek historian , who chronicled how sparta a fear of a rising athens made war between the country ’s two inevitable . following its targeted killings of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . in his 2017 book destined to war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on the other four .
what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party has murdered millions upon its millions of people , desecrate the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? chinese intellectuals tend to drop out of the question , shrugging it off as irrelevance and anyway too noxious to contemplate . we need to look ahead and not back at the time , say . things are finally moving in the right direction , and let us not , please , do anything that may upset that hopeful movement .
london – what should the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? they are all instances in which powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind a front . a global uproar , triggered by the panama papers , 11.5 million files that were perpetrated by computer hackers , from the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law company , panama ’s mossack fonseca , will most likely continue for some time . files for releases revealed the extreme and sometimes costly , lengths that individuals are going to hide their assets and avoid taxation . and these are all instances in which the effort did n’t work .
its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , with its trade unions agitating to pressure its wages up to european levels , despite lagging productivity . the longer-term consequences will not be savaged , but trouble for another day . some will say that the fatal flaw was enabled greece to adopt the euro in the first place . that the country was not set to be clear at all . but this answer is all too simple , given such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece .
unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears a repeating nowadays . this policy was destined to produce a financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and larger debts . prime minister david cameron and german chancellor of the exchequer george osborne blame the euro crisis ; in reality , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . depressions , recessions , contractions , call them what you will happen , because the private-sector spends less than it did previously . despite austerity , this year ’s forecast by the uk ’s structural deficit raised from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts every year .
paris – late last month , concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if current trends that fit the worst-case scenarios set out by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) persists , co2 concentrations will rise over 800 ppm toward the end of this century – with devastating effects . even within the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would be already too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , the predictable global mean temperature increase of 2.4-6.4 ° c caused by such high-ambient co2 concentrations is anticipating that the worst outcomes foreseen in the ipcc scenarios , including the loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid the imposition of such risk and uncertainties on future generations , global carbon emissions that are standing at 8.5 gigatons annually must be halved in 2050 .
the european commission has just put forward a draft on reforming the shared fisheries policy , which is meant to help rebuild europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fisheries . the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries , ensuring that it is sustainable . good science is the cornerstone of both policies . but it is not enough to get our respective houses in order . because fish and other ocean wildlife do not stay within national boundaries , international cooperation is essential to the world ’s long-term health for ’s oceans , and the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs .
today ’s transformational advances in health care owe much of the time to new information for genomics , the availability of big data to influence real-time decisions , more focused , individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . but they are only the beginning , but they are also only the beginning . the technologies engaging patients in their own health-care systems , and thus enable more seamless adherence to medications regimes are having the potential to improve management of disease , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs . additional breakthroughs enabled by advances in science and technology can be anticipated , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . in the process , partnerships between health-care and technology companies will become increasingly important .
moreover , establishing controls on one kind of inflow simply leads to its being disguised in other forms . they develop an layer of protection against competition for those who are better interconnected , politically , or economically ; or they have the sheer heft to elicit around limitations . even in a tightly managed economy like china , there is a way , abetted by the proliferation of african firms with multiple countries ’ operations and expanded international trade , that serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls . capital controls have real costs , even when they fail on stanch inflows . even in a tightly managed economy like china , the line of massive capital inflows over the last decade have been able to find the path around controls .
in october , the international monetary fund revised its world outlook , predicting that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession over the next year or so . such shifts might emerge only slowly ; fundamentally , they can alter the calculus for asset-price pricing and potential returns . political crises , however sensational that may or may be , are unlikely to alter investors ’ economic calculus . and , while major central banks intend or have already started rolling back their monetary policies , interest rates will remain low for now . nowadays ’s markets are easy to explain in terms of fundamental factors : earnings are growing ; inflation is kept at bay ; and the global economy appears experiencing broad , synchronized expansions .
just a week before the uk voted down this month , skidelsky speculated that voters had “ still wobbly from osborne in ’s medicine , ” may “ decide that they should stay in bed . ” more than once he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated largely by the erroneous belief that failing to reduce the deficits would forfeit investor confidence ( the “ fairy ” ) . instead , the tories won an electoral majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians . what might possibly have gone wrong or rather right ? skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman at the time that britain was “ doing worse ” than it had during the great depression .
dagan countered that the military ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s borders , regardless of where those borders come to be drawn . to my right sat dagan , who just finished eight years as head of mossad ; to my left dore , a former academic , and a former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views about how best to ensure israel ’s security , and they are worth recalling their respective arguments . gold argued that a return to the pre-1967 turkish-israeli lines would leave israel without regard to its defensible borders . israel , he insisted , can guard against threats from the east only if it maintains a military presence in the west bank and controls the jordan river , which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank .
instead , america 's jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his celebrated first step on the moon to surface 50 years ago . the notion that america 's victories in a global slump might sound like that of the sardonic musing some un-reformed marxist in a dingy corner of faculty parlance may sound the notion that america wins in a global slump . but there is no ideological standard in such a view . if the rip van winkle economist was to awaken today after decades-long sleep , and sees only those numbers , both he or she assumes that one-fifth of americans were unemployed and standing down lines outside of soup kitchens . but there is no ideological about such an attitude .
as of 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations increased more than 1.4 million hectares ( three million hectares ) . though not planted for climate purposes , these trees sodges up sea carbon dioxide . but growing forests also decreased new zealand ’s emissions when comparison year in 1990 . new zealand negotiated to include this particular co2 emission offset within its overall figures , neatly balancing the increase in actual output . for safety net , a country also purchased lots of foreign offsets , including highly self-reported ones from russia and ukraine .
berlin – europe has at last seemed to have oscillated past its multi-year economic crisis , but that remains unsettled . in june 2016 , the slim majority of british voters opted for nostalgia for nineteenth-century europe over whatever promise the twenty-first century might hold . thus , they opted for a cliff by the name of “ sovereignty . ” there is plenty of evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . for every cause of optimism , there always seem to be a new cause for concern .
new york – barack obama ’s fundamental outlines of a foreign-policy approach became clear in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments even if it profoundly disagrees about their character . he prefers to act with other countries to go it alone . and he has shifted the focus of american foreign policy from what countries do within their borders to how they operate beyond them . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration has branded countries both evil and mostly refused to do away with it ; often , rejected cooperation with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries rather than influence their actions .
until now , the wealth generated by nations has long been based on consumption of coal , gas , and oil . but if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century sees countries that are not so far off the path of de-industrialization ( like large parts of africa ) , or that leave it in time ( like india and pakistan ) , able to become rich , by assisting societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . in its current state of government , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are far from fair and efficient ; a major improvement would include establishing the central climate bank to register and supervise the emission-credits transfer . this bank would also ensure that emissions trading did not run counter to the entire global budget target , for example , via full sales of unused emission credits by individual developing countries early in the treaty period . all this , by then , remains utopian to a reasonable standard .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss to donald trump in the run-up to the 2016 us presidential election and the brexit vote that preceded it , on a public backlash against immigration , and more recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees , to stem the rise of populism . such solutions are not simply unethical ; they would not end the crisis . humanitarian assistance on its own will not work , either , except as a stopgap measure . gunter nooke , germany ’s ’s africa commissioner , has had an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede land to being administered by europe as special economic zones in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” humanitarian assistance alone will not work , either except as a stopgap measure .
according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eliminated a waiting list for kidneys in that country without giving birth to ethical concerns . since 1988 , iran has had a government-regulated , regulated system for allocating kidneys . a benevolent association of patients arranges a transaction , for a set price and none other than a seller gains from doing so . a 2006 bbc television program showed many would-be donors turned away because it failed to meet the strict age criterion , with others obligatory visits to the psychologist . a more systematic study of the iranian system continues to take place .
at that point , however , both narratives diverge . with the advent of the cold war , both president harry s. truman ’s administration and the american congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . the worry then was discrimination : european countries were concerned , finding it easier to import from one another but lacking dollars still refuse to import output from america . moreover , american officials worry that the epu would duplicate and undermine the roles of a newly created international monetary fund . to this end , they authorized epu ’s use of $ 350 million in marshall plan funds .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states have revealed , among other things , that public mistrust of global integration is on the wane . that distrust could derail new trade deals now within work and hinder future ones . doing so would not be underrated ; the danger implied by this scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that delivered peace and prosperity to the entire world over the last few decades . as costa rica ’s former minister of trade , i know what is difficult for countries – developed and cultivated alike – to craft trade-led policies that deliver benefits to all of their people .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set to hold it there . that backing appears to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which has used venezuelan petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in hopes of building regional anti-americanism alliances . over the past three years , there have been serious glee to believe that latin america is going through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent rise in commodity prices has meant that chile ’s traditional regional powerhouses , brazil , and mexico both experienced economic booms of their own . chávez is the loser not only because he has provided farc moral backing ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” not terrorists , and publicly referred to uribe as “ an american stooge ” ) , but also because he believes that he has delivered covert military aid to the farc .
even if the us federal reserve continues to cut its interest rate on debt , lenders will not rush to compel more bad mortgages . still , the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures , thereby bypassing the us economy ’s troubles on to its next president , just as it does to the iraqi quagmire . in fact , its chances that the us will become succeeding are slim . with house prices declining , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue their profligacy . for america today , the real question is whether there will be a short , sharp downturn , or a more prolonged , shallower , slowdown .
but , with language training and engaged in something like the lisbon strategy of growth and jobs ( aimed at creating an innovative , “ learning economy , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could be enhanced . but centralization carries its own costs . given the risk intrinsic to betting on policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly rewarding human capital , particularly well-educated young , to abandon lagging regions for those that offer more and better employment opportunities – could prove to be a critical adjustment tool . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea , either . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect within the eu .
“ it is not america that is to work here . ” nowadays , a majority of russian elites feel themselves not only european , but also as europeans . fixated on europe , they forget that they live in moscow or irkutk , rather than paris or budapest . many new russians , working on machines like 16 hours per day , look at their newly relaxed western counterparts with contempt often found in asia ’s tiger economies . culturally we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our populations are moslem and have inherited a lot from asia : our citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a shared history .
other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , also feel the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , are feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . whereas suu kyi lacks control of the military , which leads to a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . the united nations population fund ( unfpa ) , the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to stop work in affected areas . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who previously won international action – as well as the nobel peace prize – for her role in pushing for democracy in myanmar .
in march , the united kingdom is likely to invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering a formal process of withdrawal from the eu . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that guarantees the wellbeing of the future eu-uk relationship . this will not be easy , with eu negotiators having already set a timeline for only 18 months . though eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , dialogue between sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their shared interests – which is rooted not only in economic interdependence , but also in the refugee crisis and collective action to combat terrorism . europe ’s politics next year will be consumed in the brexit negotiations .
according to the american state department ’s own human-rights report , curbs on religious freedoms have include demolition of hindu temples , the bombings of christian churches , and a ban on the practices of shia islam , on which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ very high ” limitations on religious freedom . just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word , known as allah ” in the practices of their own faiths – a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative images of islam . moreover , members of najib ’s government are promoting hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that might impose strict limits on muslims ’ rights to choose how they practice their faith . moreover , international measures of press freedom and corruption expose persistent deficits as much as they do .
nor are there plenty of human activities whose impact on antarctica to predict decades , centuries , or even millennia in advance . the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming through greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels is another . indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report has stated in uncharacteristically strong terms that sea levels are “ virtually certain in nature ” to continue to rise in the coming centuries or millennia . but the recent revelations about antarctica are actually different . moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the sea level will rise .
it is a continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and the dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram abducted 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their sleep at kenya ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s garissa university , in 2015 . while those attacks devoured the world ’s attention , most people fail to recognize that , over the last five years alone , 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence across africa . violent extremism and espousing it poses a risk to reverse africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s development gains not just in the near term , but also in the coming decades . addis ababa , africa bears the brunt of lives being lost , economies are devastated , and relationships are fractured by terrorism . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the grassroots of weak institutions and un-governed territory where extremist groups can germany minate .
the first issue is china ’s economy , so dynamic on the surface , but so rickety underneath . the giant rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 , much of it poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s breakneck growth with the face of world recession . but the price amounted to an increasingly serious capital misallocation , with the result of growing portfolios of bad loans , while excessive chinese household saving inflated real-estate bubbles . the state-owned analyst chi lo lucidly presents an image of macro success beside micro . moreover , sochi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth pattern , owing to prolonged deterioration of demand in the advanced countries .
xi , for his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept to reach out to a new type of great-power relationship , ” ” ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others conclude is the near-inevitability of a prolonged confrontation between a rising power ( china ) and an established power ( americans ) . but , on the american view , this is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . on human rights , americans ’ leaders argue that fundamental differences exist between the two countries ’ political traditions and current systems . for these reasons , the bilateral strategic-trust deficits are growing . moreover , america is insisting on not containing china ( as it did the soviet union ) ; rather , china ’s economic rise was facilitated by access to american markets , just as it was with global markets through american accession to the world trade organization .
this , however , is simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different from competition among firms . and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden really does fall on workers , rather than on capital . the nonpartisan american congressional budget office ( cbo ) and the tax and economic policymaking institute , among others , have shown clear signs that more than 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation on shareholders than on workers . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes “ distort ” behavior and hampers wealth creation . still , this is simplistic , at best .
the doctors are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques to patients and families that wish them and even be willing to pay for them . european welfare states thus face a serious dilemma . in holland , there is no private remedies , either . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave the country or go into courts . there can be little doubt that holland spends substantial sums on caring for older people .
in democratic india , for example , it took more than eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport after courts forced the government to observe squatters ’ rights in the suburbs . and china ’s strong central government has overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , or dams , and , for many years , running roughshod over our environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . sadly , it is far from clear that the chinese model of infrastructure development can be “ exported universally . ” in democratic india , for example , it took more than eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport in the first place , because courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights in the suburbs .
the tax plan put forward in the name of republican senators by paul ryan , a speaker of the us house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions beyond those on charitable giving and producing mortgage . this change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for a very substantial reduction in individual tax rates . but congressional republicans can insist on paying for personal income tax cuts by curtailing the deductions that individuals are now using to reduce their tax bills . and , even with revenue that is earned because it could be derived from airports , firms might be deterred by the need to rely on protracted pricing deals . it is also easy to fall into the thinking trap of tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . in fact , observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent blame to go around : that increase in poaching is endangering species like the elephants and rhinos . in kenya , on the other hand , an innovative and large-scale conservation project is well underway . beginning in the caribbean in central kenya , the “ rhine ark , ” ” ” ” ” ” rhino ark , ” ” ” originally conceived to protect the highly at-risk black rhino from poachers ravages , is supported by very people who may resist it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas .
there is nothing cyclical about the enduring aftershocks of a balance-sheet recession , which has now been evident for almost five years . moreover , us households ’ debt overhang remains massive . the personal-saving rate stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from a low of 1.5 % in 2005 , but one-half of the 7.5 % average recorded during the final three decades of the twentieth century . the backward-looking logic behind this strategy is fairly troubling – not only for america , but also for the global economy . indeed , us households ’ balance-sheet repair has barely begun .
europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , as well as more recently chaotic demoneations elsewhere , demonstrate that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . ecb president mario draghi deserves top-down marks to balance germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs a accommodation . moreover , a desire to be admitted into the club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries that were later joined by the european union . a second early success was that by practically all international measures of use , europe has instantly become the world ’s second global reserve currency . more recent rudd ’s “ successes ” side include making progress in some periphery countries , particularly spain , reducing their once uncompetitive unit labor costs .
berlin – the european union ’s economy is slipping into severe , and , in all likelihood , protracted recession , largely self-inflicted . meanwhile , while germany continues to try to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the eu ’s crisis-battered countries confront the real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . italy is merely a matter of time , no longer of time , before economic destabilization gives rise to political instability in the first place . if she is unhappy with the crisis , coming to the head at the beginning of germany ’s federal election year , and all of the previous calculation might become moot , for , despite germans ’ ’ ’ frustration with europe , voters would punish severely those who allowed europe to fail . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to take hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which crises and deflation persist .
the ctbt is necessary because of its role as nuclear tests develop and enhance nuclear weapons . it sets the new standards for the nuclear-arms treaty ’s obligations and verification . such trials are also political symbols , having a place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . even today , thanks to a variety of sophisticated means , we can detect very little nuclear tests in remote locations . the treaty is also fair — it involves equal rights and responsibilities for all its parties .
the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many people hopes – probably too many for any single leader . us leaders need enough mastery of detail , like that of china ’s last premier zhu rongji , who can tell us not just how to get us recovery from to z , but can actually lead the us out of what it would like to be in order to b. after all , their power to act is constrained by their political environment . looking around , leaders like these would seem to be an extinct species . or , where they exist at all seem constrained by dysfunctional political systems .
the un security council resolved , in november that year , that the process of acquiring territory through war ” is unacceptable . subsequent security council resolutions and international treaties upheld this principle . palestine ’s quest for statehood within june 4 , 1967 , fell squarely within the borders of the international rule of law . today , the palestinians are seeking statehood on a mere 22 % of the territory that comprised part of mandatory palestine , until israel unilaterally established on areas far larger than those awarded by un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . in fact , a palestinian state founded on its 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama called for .
indeed , some argue that a world of inventiveness and internationalism by its interests and shared causes is likely to be more resilient than one crammed into a man-made – and , increasingly , constraining – box of national status . in that sense , the economic success of china or india may be those states ’ undoing , as middle-class political aspirations render contemporary arrangements dysfunctional . in a world of competing organizational structures , the real question for international governance is how to provide a proper framework of institutions and rules . politicians ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time not to abandon the us states and approach diplomacy towards their destiny . conversely , we may in a world whose eastern half are organized in powerful authoritarian state structures with the west embracing “ state model ” of association .
the anti-corruption campaign is reflected in the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself of vested interests . nonetheless , party rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will be fulfilled . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the distinguished free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . in its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . many hopes that these changes will help the ccp to become more effective , strengthen its market role , and avoid the so-called ensnared many emerging countries .
but nothing would have a greater impact than turkey ’s decision that it will no longer permit itself to become a conduit , and to enforce the united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . another component of any strategy must be to counter is the appeal and propaganda . curtailing the flow of recruits is even more vital . countries can do more to make it harder for individuals to abandon for iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list would help . indeed , such flows should be shut down by both governments and financial institutions .
indeed , we also need to grasp the mechanics of the russian succession politics . political technologies means covertly sponsoring politicians such as bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) , to block a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution and mobilize voters against a more carefully enigmatic “ enemy . ” medvedev himself may find some or all of this noxious behavior ; but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that is hardly likely to go away overnight . the enemy was communists in 1996 ; in spain , chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs ” were the exception . now it is the us , the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won stability .
the visegrád group , cefta , the central european initiative produced a thriving free trade system and an expanded investment stream among countries across the region . so our task was to be found not just to remake a state but to society too -- its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural hegemony . through learning one another 's languages , through cooperation based on shared values , common interests , as well as historic bonds , central europe demonstrated what spectacular results can be . in a broader context , hungary 's re-integration into western institutional structures is proceeding steadily , if not on the desired pace . our newly freed societies now must learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned some new economic and political language .
the abermountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and the vital water-catchment zones , together with the national park , are vitally important for kenya . in 1988 , conservationists decided to fund and construct a electrified fence to protect an aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . the fence was intended to prevent the intrusions of human population and park ’s habitat . but it was also protecting local farmers whose crops were regularly devastated by a marauding elephant and other child wildlife . local farmers were welcomed by an initiative that influenced the decision to expand the fence to surround a whole perimeter dare range .
for the past quarter-century , social inequality rose unabated in the west , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union , and with it the threat of expansionist communism . at the same time , however , after communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , western ’s rich people believed that they had nothing more to fear , pushed to roll back the welfare state , thereby causing inequality to soar rapidly . the specter of popular revolts was driven by western elites who used national power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . this was tolerable for as long as the global pie was expanding ; yet the 2008 global financial crisis ended that . it was precisely those protests that led to two major causes .
so , too , are some other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . in 1998 , the un estimated the total value of $ 400 billion in illicit drug trade , or 7 % of world trade . critics say that this figure is just half that – still a remarkable sum . for now , colombia is a far worse place than at any time in chicago under al capone of the organization . drug prohibition effectively imposes a global trade tax on illicit drugs that are enforced by governments , and that collect the willingness to violate laws .
tatiana insisted that bam construction began in 1974 , a politically correct date after which “ clean labor ” was used . but the railway ’s first section , initiated by stalin to offer an east route that ran farther away from the chinese border , was erected by forced labor , including all russian inmates and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were used , it was not nearly as enthusiastic as official accounts claim . lacking adequate housing and electricity , very few reenlisted companies were reencoded , and much of it deserted before completing their term . nonetheless , brezhnev-era construction has been showing what dying soviet system remains able to achieve .
whereas proportional representation will determine two-thirds of the lower-house seats , one-third will vote for first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies , where m5s will probably lose out , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliance required to secure majorities . in reality , the party grouping that will benefit the most from the current electoral system will be the sole it has managed to forge an behind-the-scenes pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . and , with its support at about 26-29 % , italy remains popular despite its poor performance running the city council of rome . as it demonstrated with his electoral victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s ’s greatest strength has always been its building coalitions . the trouble for m5s is that , owing to a new electoral law , it will need to win roughly 40 % of the overall vote to secure a parliamentary majority .
per india ’s critics have long claimed that a unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares , and freight charges for railway services that were unable to cover the cost of keeping the trains ’ safety and tracks , much less enable expansion and improvements in service , reflected the government ’s inability to make tough choices . it remains true that a coalition politics has prevented decisive action , with a railroad minister sumily dismiss her own party ’s de facto leaders – which upa was politically unable to countenance – after attempting to boost fares . but , with the pre-election prime-amendment budget , upa administration finally a bullet , proposing a 14.2 % rise in railway fares and a 6.5 % tariff on freight rates . soon after taking office , modi ’s government announced its intention to implement price increases , even though officials made sure to emphasize that they were merely following through on the existing mandate . per india ’s code of politics was deferred until after the election .
while non-muslims would face the possibility of passing a approved bill , getting a free pass , similarly excluding muslims would suddenly be bearing the onus of demonstrating that they are indian . this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing level of cultural diversity . coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic public-registry , the authorities would be able to disenfranchise any indian muslims unable to display its or her provenance in india . many indians , particularly the poor , lack a documentary evidence of when , and where they are born ; even certificates of birth have become widespread only in recent decades . this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing level of cultural diversity .
compounding the problem , hardly anyone genuinely understands the exact connections among russian and european institutions and markets . ltcm ’s collapse in 1998 was completely unexpected . having just emerged from the deep recession , and then financial disruptions could easily throw europe back into recession , especially given european economy ’s close links to russia through trade and energy . the financial sanctions against russia are not targeted , temporary , or full credible . is europe prepared today to deal with a similar default by an important financial institution ?
gdp has almost tripled in the last 20 years ; but , with real wages rising at less than half that rate , growth has been a decoupled from ordinary citizens ’ destiny . indeed , south korea has been troubled , for two key reasons . signs of social hardship are proliferating . more than one-half of middle-income households spend more every month than they earn . south korea ’s divorce rate has more than doubled , its fertility rate has plummeted to its fourth lowest level among advanced economies ; and suicide rates are the highest in the oecd .
while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional weapons , its capacity for fighting terrorism appears to be higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that allowed it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which has simply reinforced , rather than undermined , an enemy on ’s own fanaticism . it is precisely to impede the development of collective security fears that we need to alter the equilibrium between security and liberty . police actions must be merciless , even when that implies more checks and supervision . this may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from a payg industry that makes most of its profit from high-interest lending to people with no alternative when it desperately need cash . mulvaney also dedicated considerable time over the last two years to weaken the safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau previously tried to implement to prevent some industry ’s worst abuses . ross should have read mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book about how half of the banks run and reflect on the high cost of credit for low-income families . or he could have asked just mick mulvaney , an acting white house staff chief . as the government shutdown lengthened , the stock prices of paypal rose .
seoul – a large-scale military revolution is taking place across east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , a ex-politburo member and former vice-chair of the central military policy commission , on corruption charges , and japan ’s ’s ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit the country to provide military aid to its allies . despite the escalating regional tensions that have inspired these moves , there is no denying that china ’s relations with its neighbors , and the united states , can not be fated to wage direct confrontation . more broadly , there are three paths to foster a kind of international peace process : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and constructing international institutions . but the inexorable march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways , if that outcome is to be avoided .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we saw over the past two years has to do with a fundamental source of instability in the banking system , one that can and must design from its existence . to do that , we need to advance the state of our financial technologies . in a serious financial crisis , banks find that a falling market value for many assets has left them borderless capital . they can not raise much more capital over the course of this crisis ; so , to restore capital adequacy , stop making new loans , and calling in their outstanding loans , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into the tailspin . this problem is rather technical in nature , as is its resolution .
kadyrov has also catered to the chechen majority ’s spiritual aspirations . but he has maintained that islam is an essential component of chechen traditions , presenting himself as a leader who fully understands this . thus he has encouraged the islamic dress codes , and has erected a gigantic mosque – one of the largest , if not the greatest , of all – in europe . still , having enjoyed a massive subsidy from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny and provided it with a kind of security . he rejected wahhabism , the jihadists ’ very ideological framework .
afghanistan presents particular reconstruction difficulties , because it is not a society with a strong political center . roads , airports , and communications system also need to be revitalized if trade is to be restored . village housing must be delivered on a massive scale . it needs an education system that is almost from scratch , and with so many women anxious to return to learning , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians acquire a powerful workforce lobby . a special attention should be given to elementary schools and libraries outside urban areas .
what i have just described is no mere hypothetical . indeed , it has a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood by idly as the economy crumbled , is the molding event seared the insight of any american central banker . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ divergent approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experience . banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role that collective memory plays in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they confront .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit cuts took effect , predicting a significant decline in unemployment , or the pace of economic growth , to recover to brisk rates . as a result , “ full recovery still looks a long way off , ” ” he cautioned . “ and , indeed , i am ’m starting to worry that it might never happen . i raise all of this because krugman has taken a lap in his preend-2014 column on “ obama recovery . ” on the other hand , “ the catastrophic turned toward austerity ” shattered millions of jobs and shattered many lives , arguing , with the american congress exposing the americans to “ the imminent threat of great economic damage from short-term spending cuts . ”
even when many are in trouble , it is probably not the best time to start a new car company , either . yet , while the market for new automobiles has slowed dramatically , it could be a good time to start a business of replacing gasoline engines with electric ones . the group ’s initiative , led by rowsänen , is called ecars – now ! – now ! : a small operation in finland leads less to a company than a role model for the companies that the team hopes to spring globally . borrowing from open-software movements , schäuble and his colleagues want both to make the idea and fundamental designs of free , and to encourage faraway companies everywhere to implement it locally .
the united states , with a government that can barely be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . contrast these failures with vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya appear to be at the height of his success . but my view is that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded rationale among those calling for a “ color revolutions . ” consider , for example , that nobody has ever developed an accurate way to measure whether and to what extent a government is efficient . when the criterion of efficiency is its ability to achieve all society ’s goals , it is likely that we will never find such a thing .
these and other funding streams have helped african researchers develop drought-resistant crops , make vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and broaden opportunities for science and technology education . sadly , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on those gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . africa ’s leaders have before pooled their science resources in science . in 2003 , the african union , along with a new african ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s development partnership for education , started implementing a continent-wide strategy “ to develop and apply the science and technology to the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and integrate into the global economy . ”
london – five years after the american investment bank lehman brothers collapsed , the world still failed to address the fundamental cause of the ensuing financial crisis , over-indebtedness . official forecasts in the spring of 2009 predicted neither a slow recovery , nor that an initial crisis , essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel knock-on crises in the eurozone as a whole . most economists , central bankers , central bankers , and regulators largely failed to anticipate the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was assured so long and stable as inflation was . and , once immediate crises were contained , the us failed to predict how painful its consequences would be . and it was why its economic recovery advanced far more slowly than anyone expected ( in some countries no longer had come at all ) .
the third deal in phase two centers around a uk-eu roadmap after 2021 . this will not amount to a free-trade treaty , but rather a political declaration on where either side is hoping to bring it down . for britons in a “ leave ” camp , such a transition will enable the uk to stay within the eu on all but name . the great difference is that the uk will lose its vote on the table . and to some of those in the “ leave ” camp , this is a means of exit without falling off the edge of a cliff .
al qaeda ’s agenda is as much about building a new islamic caliphate as it is about waging jihad against the west . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or gay people . muslims find it hard to see how we can believe that our society is civilized , when it comes to pornography and drunkenness openly displays . the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia , with salafi extremists and theological moderates . to the extent that europeans are christian at all levels , they view religiosity as an individual ’s attachment to his or her god ; muslims view it as organizing a social principle .
the answer can be found in the relationship between europe and russia . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european , orange revolution , which beat his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keep ukraine within the russian camp instead . with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe , it was forced to withdraw toward the frontier extending westphalia since peter the great , ultimately to both the elbe and thuringia . yanukovych was always the kremlin ’s ally , though . so , why was the eu voting an association agreement without resorting to ukraine to offer anything comparable to what russia had offered ?
a country less obviously does not want misguided or pointless change ; it wants investment that appears to the financial sector as productive . basically , it is productive change in a way that i call for economic dynamism . what is needed for a high level of performance , and what is needed is a high degree of performance ? for their employees to develop , they need to be imbedded in a stimulating workplace , with new problems to resolve , harder tasks become mastered , added ability to strive . the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism was linked to weak economic performance , with particularly low prosperity .
first , because most of the technology-based monopoly power will not breach existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . second , the standard view of business incomes and taxation will have to be tailored to account for it firms ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ monopoly power . new concepts of public purpose are also required for regulating new channels of public information , such as social networks . and , third , laws designed to protect private information should be reevaluated in order to ensure that it is companies ’ inability to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . above all , the general public needs to develop a deeper understanding of it ’s economic effects , particularly how technology that has improved the life of so many is enriching the life of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in as many years as possible , this period in the middle african republic ’s – – a “ interventionism ” that seemed discredited after the american invasion of iraq – appears to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . indeed , decades of unrelenting intervention shifted the terms of debate , with recent operations justified by their achievability rather than merit . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , interventions nowadays require nothing more than unilateral instruction of humanitarian or counterterrorism goals , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection with the ongoing united nations talks . a military-enforced operation might also follow the un security council , but only after the fact , in which the council ’s decisions can no longer adequately influence events on the ground . to see how this shift came to be seen is why , more often than not , such intervention failed to attain its goals .
he argues that economists have become blind to a catastrophic macro failure , because they have mistook the beauty or elegance of a theoretical model for truth . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession ’s patrimony , a tradition dating back to adam smith , that appreciated grand , unifying theories of political economy and moral philosophy . simplicity and the elegance of micro - and macro evolution give them a useful role in explaining the mechanism of price and equilibrium or imbalances of keynesian aggregate economic variables . but both models are unable to describe or analyze the actual behavior of key market actors . the contemporary obsessive with reductionist , mechanical model seems to have driven the profession from theory to ideology , injecting it from touch into the real economy .
after all , not only does such no-strings-attached databases make it easier to sharing ; they enable them to steal . meanwhile , the question is how to regulate access to genetic sequence data in international debates , including at the world health organization and the un food and agricultural organization . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , early december . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the parties ’ conference on biological diversity , a key treaty that regulates access to biodiversity . participants at cop13 must concentrate on the need to safeguard resource providers ’ rights .
but , for all except bush – and those left unemployed by the demand lag – it represents an exceptional opportunity . if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , especially because one powerful effect of the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to create a far more prosperous part of the global division of labor that is now centered on american society . as the world ’s lead-economy is churned out , america faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , for it must create – not simply copy and adapt – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organization . demand growth at a pace seen in any preceding decade would suddenly be desperately deficient , and bush is being blamed ( with some justice for the slack in the slack labor market that resulted . ) the remarkable productivity boosts that prevail in america will ultimately result in accelerating the growth of both real gains and actual wages , if only american policymakers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging “ protect ” output and employment .
at a time of unprecedented global challenges , including those related to climate change and high levels of inequality – that must include platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . rather than focusing on meeting rising demand for meat by scaling up factorial farming operations , as companies have done on the past , – – and as companies like impossible foods – work to help drive overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . this is propelling the latest transition in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and a high level of inequality – this must include using platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze , sustainable-meat solutions . in order to avoid another public backlash , they must empower such platforms to serve the us not just as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and residents .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s eleventh ministerial conference . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy , either . some sort of agreement is typically delivered , but only at a last moment , and its language is often vague . with the united states having historically spearheaded the world to pursue trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions ; the meeting is set to take place , in contrast to some other way . this time , the outcome could be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even a token agreement to tout with an aggressive marketing campaign .
similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance nationalist narratives that can prove very handy for politicians to win popular support . poland , for one , has accrued significant electoral support , owing partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for an end to political tragedies . there is a more extreme set of cases than is the one that poland faces . poland has instituted such a law in 1998 , in addition to its default on hungary .
instead , reform proposals so far have chosen to blend higher capital requirements for leading banks , as well as pre-funding deposit deposit insurance through a special levy based on bank deposits . this would enable the capital buffers that would be created in good years at a time that could then be drawn down in bad years . there seems little appetite for proposals to vary purely capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . as is often noted , unless banking regulations are identical across the frontiers , there will be plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ” admittedly , there are difficulties in including any proposal to restrict the scope for “ risky ” banking , particularly with respect to a global economy with free capital mobility .
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act ( aca ) , president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in expanding insurance coverage to the point that millions of americans who might not otherwise have had it . and , contrary to the critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed health-care costs down ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending to the downward revision . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is no guarantee of it . that will depend on the obama administration ’s additional policies , especially those in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over intellectual-property ownership . and there , obama appears determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to the pressure coming american pharmaceutical lobby .
likewise , carving out fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up the fiscal capacity needed to enable resources to be redirected to new sectors that facilitate services and urban employment ; but that would make it worse , at least at first – today ’s ’s ’s demand shortfall . economic historians – notably , michael a. bernstein , in his study of the great depression in the united states – have convincingly shown that an economy in transition requires powering its resources into new sectors . if both the old and new industries in an economy are in a slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline , and structural adjustment will stall . slashing the state sector right away through austerity is not the way forward . robust aggregate demand is always essential to a successful transformation .
with innovations in digital payments barreling ahead , these questions are now commanding the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . london – how radically will digital currencies reshape our exchange methods and how we think about money ?
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process appears to be on the brink of failure . though achieving a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to maintain even the façade of a “ peace process ” that was every process and a lack of peace . still , that might not be such a bad thing , either . for a few reasons , the negotiations are failing , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of facilities occupied in 1967 , over opposition from the international community , including the american one . if anything , israel has moderated settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while tightening its demands , especially regarding the stationing of israeli troops in the jordan valley .
in december 2008 , the moscow metropolitan court upheld its release on bail out 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 by the time ) . by that time , aleksanyan was terminally ill with aids for which treatment withheld . her requests were refused , as her previous pleading in 2006 to suspend her sentence , until her two sons got her to age 14 – a petition that she was right to make under russian law . vasily aleksanyan positioned executive vice president yukos , and , as the lawyer , defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev after their arrest in 2003 . he was subsequently disbarred , and himself arrested in april 2006 .
moreover , they need it until the end of the year to prevent further damage from the large tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline will require that both sides start engaging in symbolic and substantive steps at once . as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text as the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfying its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should remove american provisions for retaining tariffs after the agreement signed , and unilaterally re-imposing tariffs if the american concludes that china is not honoring the deal . and it should add to the commitment that china will execute an agreement , which it is “ in line with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ”
princeton -- most of today ’s advanced economies have become as they navigate the well-worn path of industrialization . peasants have become factory workers , a process that has underpinned not only an unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in social and political organization . the labor movement has given rise to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . over time , manufacturing has ceded its location to services . a progression of manufacturing industries , through textiles , steel , automobiles , which emerged from the ashes of conventional artisan weather-factories and guild systems , is transforming agrarian societies into urban areas .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
and , of course , that average does not even include the fukushima catastrophe . another nuclear-power index , this one including costs beyond death and property damage , such as injured or irradiated personnel and malfunctions that resulted from shutdowns or leaks , documented 956 incidents ranging from 1942 to 2007 . moreover , as a result , 57 accidents have occurred since the chernobyl disaster in 1986 . whereas just a handful of involved homicides , those who collectively killed more people than died in commercial united states airline accidents since 1982 . indeed , when compared to other energy sources , nuclear power ranks higher than that of oil , coal , and birth-related gas systems , second only to hydroelectric dams .
unlike some of her predecessors , merkel – who grew up in east germany – remains wary of russia ’s strategic designs . in fact , russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than washington or new york . there can be little doubt that the benefits to russia and china , at least in the short and medium term , will be mostly from america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s abdication of leadership . that might no longer be so easy , once the american people no longer view china as reliable protector , and their fear of china turns into panic . some people are not excessively troubled by this ; they are not at all .
for uribe and his opposition allies , the main objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of the transitional justice system . the negotiators decided that an unconditional request for justice would be impossible . but , when a deal is negotiated well , the end results yielded significantly more benefits than the costs . and that would go hand in hand with a colombian accord that addresses a huge array of social and economic issues , including issues affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and the provision of millions displaced by more than a half-century of fighting . the deal has also included an historic program of land-reform .
america , for example , got it wrong in 2003 to invade iraq , but was right to join the fight against isis in order to save its yazidis from the massacre . it was right to attack the occupied town of mosul ; but it was wrong to cut the city in order to dust . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , for forces opposed to assad lacked the necessary popular backing , and the us was not prepared to help them win that support . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds have been a good idea , because they have been effective fighters with strong backing from their own population ; and most likely will not survive under an isis caliphate . elsewhere , the us rightly wants to strengthen south korean and japanese defenses , but apparently wrong to threaten a nuclear war .
just as communism was being discarded , so was the notion of a state as the agent around which our collective interests and aspirations can organize ourselves . the individual became the ultimate agent of change , an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . the trouble began when the cold war ’s end , when the collapse of a bankrupt communist ideology was complacently interpreted as that of the market ’s triumph . indeed , economics was placed on a pedestal and enshrined in institutions such as the central bank and the authorities of competition , in an unintentionally separated and rendered independent by politics . such individual identity comes not from class interests , or from other sociological characteristics , but from market logic that dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as a manufacturer , consumer , or voter .
madrid – june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens have denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority it needs to amend its constitution . moreover , by empowering the people of the people ’s democratic party ( hdp ) , which brings together the country ’s long-estranged kurdish minority and other groups , more than 10 % of the vote , they have enabled the first-time party to enter parliament with intra-country representation , rather than only in kurd-majority regions . the rest of the world – and , in particular , europe – should take note . indeed , while some grievances regarding transparency appeared during the campaign process , democracy had prevailed , with some stunning 86 % of eligible voters turned out – a rate that was rarely discussed in europe .
when an app is successful , a refugee has the right to bring it down to his or her family members just as well . to redistribute the burden more equitably , germany has attempted to have a european quota system that is instituted to allocate applicants among eu member countries to join . more often than not , arab families have sent their minors into germany on the not-unwarranted hope of gaining the right for other family members to follow later . but germany ’s ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ” germany will have to deal with the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come .
washington , dc -- anybody watching the united states ’ presidential race is necessary to grasp that national opinion polls fail to produce an exact picture of how an election might turn out . in nearly every state , a candidate winning 50.1 % of popular votes receives 100 % of his or her electoral college votes . each state is awarded a certain number of votes in electoral college , depending on the size of its population . thanks to america ’s electoral college education , it is not who wins the most votes nationwide , that matters in the end , but who wins when state . the candidate who crisscrosses the threshold of 270 electoral college votes wins the presidency .
new york – the prospect that america ’s federal reserve will begin exiting zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fears of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ currency , bond , and stock markets . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past few years , they now face increasing the real local-currency value of those debts , while rising american rates push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby raising debt-service costs further . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled the end of its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy in 2013 , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shockwaves through many emerging countries ’ financial markets and economies equities . indeed , rising us interest rates in the united states , and the ensuing likely rise in the dollar ’s value , might be worried , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , corporations , and even households . but , though the prospect of the fed raising interest rates presumably implies significant turbulence in emerging-market countries ’ financial markets , the risks of outright crises and distress are greater .
faced with american unilateralism , he failed to promote a realistic , multilateral solution . indeed , under chirac , france appears increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of righteousness in its views , and the universality of its model – the very charges so often levelled vis-à-vis george w. bush ’s america . chirac compounded his errors over iraq in his approach to the new european commission . on an old commission headed by romano prodi , france was powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding the trade portfolio . on the other hand , despite being right for iraqis , chirac became isolated , an isolation that grew because he , too , failed to reintroduce satisfactory relations with president bush .
and the expanding global population – set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources still further . governments should take the lead in providing prudent management and sustainable tapping scarce water resources . urgent action is needed to ensure access to secure , affordable water , and sanitation for everyone . first , there are drastic improvements to water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , electricity , and environment facilities – that are required to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – depend on uninterrupted supplies .
while iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the impact of sanctions , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . first , prohibiting us oil exports is more painful when world oil prices rise . but iran faced similar economic hardship before its – in the 1980 ’s , when oil exports fell substantially amid the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s eight-year war with iraq , and global oil prices extremely low – and handled them relatively well . four factors made the oil embargo especially unbearable today . ahmadinejad took advantage of a massive spike in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context for its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming when it suits its neighbors or the outside world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east political landscape changes in radically positive ways . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defensive against an existential threat . across-the-board nuclear equality , after all , can only boost iran ’s own nuclear claim . not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities , while the npt party , the israelis will say ; it has also put israel at a heavy destruction on its agenda . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which campaigned on a strategy of nuclear opacity ; both see themselves as nuclear states , and want the world accepted that status ; israel has never tested a nuclear weapon ; and it has unequivocally accepted the nuclear suppliers group ( nsg ) which seeks stem proliferation through its control of nuclear exports . across-the-board nuclear equality , after all , can only give back to iran a nuclear claim .
the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise by 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell whether , say , or what will come next . protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been shown to have been footed . but no one knows whether china ’s child step is the beginning of something much bigger , because china ’s authorities hint one day , denying the next . they want to maintain bathing in press coverage , but if they push their china-bashing too far and too fast , protectionists can see the stiffer delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . whatever the final economic effects of china ’s first modest step in moving toward reining in their currency , one has to admire its strategic brilliance .
and here , in particular , obama will quickly grasp that hollande has no determination to bring sweeping change . on the other hand , his intentions will emerge as a reliable , unsurprising partner . hollande is not likely to be less friendly with america than was sarkozy , considered to have many as france ’s most pro-european president . one of his close political allies in office recently declared that the un security council should approve military interventions in syria , france “ could envision ” ” ” participating in that effort . hollande ’s endorsement of military intervention in libya in 2011 led to his condemnations of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime .
deflation -- the steady ongoing decline of prices -- gave firms and consumers powerful incentives to cut spending and to hoard cash . it reduced the ability of firms and banks to service their debt and could trigger a variety of large bankruptcies to destroy confidence in the financial system and to provide further hoard incentives . such powerful incentives to hoard rather than spend can keep demand low and fall , and unemployment high and rising for a far longer period than even a laissez-faith-oriented politician or economist ever dared contemplate . hence the keynesian solution : use of lax monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policies ( expanded government spending and reduced taxes ) to keep the economy from ever approaching the precipice , where deflation became possible . but , if that is really what happened over fifty years ago , why is it conjuring us now ?
and , of the 50 million children living outside their own countries , or have been internally displaced ; more than half have been uprooted , and face new threats to their livelihoods and well-being . millions of children remain undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are threatened with exploitation , abuse , and worse . the quantity and complexity of cascading crises , however , is tested that the system , like it has never before . this is not to say rhetoric ; it is to be a reality , after all . the un – with the support of countries like sweden and through the coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef – is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can .
overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . next month ’s un secretary-general , the un climate summit should serve as just such a fast , with countries that commit to stepping up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement so that they can reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set the bar high , cast pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will drive the process forward . to this end , a african think coalition of africa , with the un economic commission on africa and a new climate economy , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path .
widespread instability in social relations – most fundamentally , but not only in democratic countries – is slowly becoming intolerable toward a growing segment of populations in many developed countries , not only in europe . nor can there be a stable economic order anywhere , at least not in democratic countries ; if electorates dismiss their underpinnings . the rejection of french and dutch voters by french and dutch voters was , by all accounts , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than was europe ’s rejection . after world war ii , capitalism might have been reinvented because it buttressed by three essential types of regulation : social security that served as a principal stabilizer ; at least in advanced countries ; keynesian instruments to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policy aimed at stimulating general consumption , without which the genius of crony capitalism – mass production – does not work . but the realignment of rich , developed countries around the monetarist policies that economists like milton friedman considered to have broken with all .
an announced rate now should be substantially positive , it wrote , because if officials attempt to rush it close to zero , any error could result from deflation , which “ might put the financial system at risk and precipitate an economic contraction . ” that , in turn , might create a sense of genuine risk . inflation targeting has other effects , too , that seems to occur more on central bankers ’ minds . in his influential 1998 inflation-targeting book inflation , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target rate of inflation because it “ communicates the central bank with intentions ” that would “ reduce uncertainty . ” at the same time , in an age of rumors and fake news , the world may look a bit unmoored from history .
berkeley – with its more ambitious “ one china 2025 ” strategy , china has set a clear goal of securing global economic leadership in advanced tech industries . this places it during a direct contest with the united states – one that currently leads in those industries – in what emerges as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technology with both business and military applications . with its investment in such dual-use technology , china is looking more like it is competing commercially with the us ; it is also seeking more military and geopolitical might . and it has deployed a variety of methods , including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of joint ventures with chinese partners , evasion of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from american and other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations .
soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia , which – together with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – was then anchored firmly in the west , by joining nato and the eu . soon after , slovakia ’s so-called “ velvet divorce ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia , which – together with other central and eastern european countries ( including other central and eastern europe ) , as well as poland ( including hungary and poland ) – was then anchored firmly in the west , by joining nato and the eu . a trade war , today , would damage all economies . already , chinese financial markets had suffered , while those within the u.s. held their own hands .
the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , as we work our way out of the bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , the international monetary fund , and the international monetary fund ) and return to the markets . the treaty would promote stability in iran ’s economy , and contribute to stabilizing europe , our currencies . it would enhance confidence in iran , allowing the us to increase its existing inflows of inward foreign direct investment . ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to financing from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , we should ever need it . most importantly , a fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible pan-european budgeting .
after exploring this issue with legislators in a number of countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many have not yet been fully in line with the myriad issues that need one come to mind . it is a tricky subject to address and doing so is hindered by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . in europe , legislation to protect the personal data is not a comprehensive process , and much of the outside world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . all organizations should be involved in ethics officials , or some kind of review process , involving people who can evaluate all of the implications of a great-sounding idea . in the short term , young companies should view ethics not as marketing gimmick , but as core concerns .
but it must navigate the tricky road , because both point of view have significant popular support . for them , the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies are closer to shahbag protesters than to the hifazat counterprotesters . the young at shahbag are mainly the urban , well-educated , and the middle class ; hifazat derives its support mainly from the rural poor . traditional versus modern , city versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are stuff from political cliché . but , all too often , clichés become well-established , because they are true .
even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does not operate equally well for everyone . after all , cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade ; but none has been adopted widely enough to challenge the existing order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could change that . the true bombshell was , nonetheless , a sudden appreciation of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system – not at some later date but right now . now that the boe has brought down the gauntlet , governments should be using the opportunity to advance a form of digital currency that serves the public good .
before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations among cold war superpowers overwhelmed rock bottom . reagan and i were able to develop a reservoir of constructive spirit , through continuous outreach and face-to-face interaction . economic constraints and the chernobyl catastrophe helped spur us to take action . why has the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at the fukushima daiichi in japan not elicited a similar response today ? what seems lacking today are boldness and vision leaders to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
across europe , it is not just british prime minister tony blair , who is charged with “ presidentialism ” nowadays , that is . german chancellor gerhard schröder , for his part , faces the same accusation as in germany ’s current election campaign . it offers a good moment to examine why they are so enfeebled . august is the traditional month of parliaments recess for summer . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy does n’t even enjoy recess in the name of prime minister .
first , a new set of outward disciplines is coming hand-in-hand with a specific , neo-liberal economic development model that remains untested and speaks to missing development strategies that worked in the past and others that could work in the future . the second is doubtful that a new policy agenda for formulating a new policy agenda will make the international financial system far safer . as long as capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets held by national governments , and are easily reversible , the international economy will be hostage to a spectacular boom-and-bust cycle . indeed , by drawing attention to outside structural reform in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency about short-term capital flows , growing , rather then dragging down systemic risk . narrowing national autonomy in formulating a development strategy is an cost that developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate prize .
if all else fails , the coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened . and all of these clichés have been reproduced in coverage of barra ’s appointment at gm . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in ceos ’ case , they also reduce the value of their societies . for example , cnn has covered the narrative by referring to barra ’s “ knack ” for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never have been used with a man at the summit for whom – presumably , hard work , talents , aspirations , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” than a “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder . numerous news stories of female ceos and other high-achieving women are coded with a set of reliable clichés : lucked in their new roles ( and thus deserving them ) ; they inherited them from male relatives or spouses ( and therefore do n’t hold the reins of power ) , or do n’t long .
state-owned enterprises are still favored , the books are being burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life . but the country ’s repressive turn over the previous decade was nonetheless disappointing to witness . the dynasties are taking and right , but , in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its constituent assembly . how long this will continue is anybody ’s guess . few observers expected that china will transform sudden into a full-throated democracy , following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 .
first , an election rarely solves fundamental problems . nevertheless , one must wonder about a winning movement , with just a few elected members in israeli prisons and others who are not likely to obtain permission to enter a country where they were elected to make the new parliament impossible to function . more recently , elections in europe ’s postcommunist countries have brought groups into power whose democratic credentials are questionable , to say the least . this is not to equate hamas with any of these political forces . all of this tells us three things about democracy : first , elections rarely solve the problem .
this is why lugovoi is being interviewed for his or her autograph . it is now clear that we face the mystery of russia ’s thought that has proven so unhinged to others ; so unyielding on every analytical scalpel and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length . a social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia to jangle it in the breast of ordinary russians without the slightest dissonance . apparently , this should not be taken for granted that the patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement admitting justice under british accusations . but only one such “ patriot ” was granted the honor of being allowed to perform this act .
and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to another , it creates persistent inequality traps . only by supporting the establishment of human capital in an early age can we ensure that inequalities within a generation do we avoid passing on to future generations . · removing opportunity bottlenecks , governments must tackle the root causes of inequality , by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize disadvantages . moreover , given that inequality largely begins at a time of childhood , governments need to invest far more in high-quality , universal health care and early childhood education . · make such investment , requiring additional domestic sources , will require additional domestic sources .
some , it should be emphasized , are being made to go along . spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially from the outset of the crisis in 2010 . greece has cut its spending by larger sums , relative to gdp than any country in europe since the end of world war ii . italy has grasped , crucially , important reforms in areas such as pensions . other reforms , in particular , political reform , will be hotly contested .
but the aftershocks linger : household-debt burdens still stood at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and personal-saving rates averaged a mere 3.9 % last year ( versus the 7.9 % average of 7.9 % between 1970 and 1999 ) . gains from inflation-adjusted spending in personal-consumption have averaged only 0.8 % in the last five years – most seriously and protracted slowing the growth in consumer demand in the post-world war ii boom . understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have failed to take up the bait from their monetary and fiscal institutions . two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families have freely borrowed – have long since burst . instead , they have cut back on expenditures .
while his motivation , at least partly , may have been a yearning for social justice , perón was in effect , bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise in power and wealth . although his motivation , at least partly a call for social justice , perón was in effect bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise in power and wealth . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even if the move toward autarky undermined growth , causing the country to lose its status among the world ’s richest people . perón ’s government nationalized banks and railroads , boosted the minimum wage and improved living standards , cut the national debt ( for a while ) , and revived the economy . with his beautiful , out-of-touch wife , “ the woman of the people , ” perón , to become the right of voters in 1946 that , as president , would change the country fundamentally .
in the end , amid street riots and political squabbling , argentina abandoned its currency peg to spain in 2002 . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers , as it does . the cap ’s defenders will sound unpersuasive , because the economic case for it is weak in france ’s absence of an extreme credibility problem . viewed with argentina ’s current experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic , all the more against a backdrop of political tumult set to continue for the foreseeable future . it is not hard to imagine the next government – whenever it revalues , perceiving the cap as an impediment to faster economic growth .
while the experts spent the last two years propenting this thesis on the market quietly restored an older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and hence good for equities . part of this can be explained by misunderstanding about the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . a strange conventional wisdom advanced in the case of the case of inflationary 1970 ’s and 1980s : that strong economic growth and rising unemployment were the wrong thing to do about share prices . prosperity , it was felt , would inflame inflation , provoke soaring interest rates , triggering stock-market rout . that is one message from pondering markets even for non-investor : political confidence can be at a low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-shocked by a last-recession and dismal about their futures ; but judging by the behavior of the years ahead resembles more a stable , prosperous 1950s and 1960s , than the crisis-ridden decades of 1973 to depression .
* sound economic analysis and background papers readily available to study technocrats and others ; * sound economic analysis is another tool business can use to influence public policy . elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) has been using its agenda over a couple of years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , this task assumed critical importance due to a country opening itself to democracy . to shape legislation , such as a program to open up to democracy , * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ;
the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in each ) for indonesia , korea and thailand to pay back their foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds . currencies collapsed and the banking sector collapsed . the imf anticipated thailand and others to achieve positive growth in 1998 ( 3 % in thailand , for example ) . now the imf is acknowledging that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . its medicine has done little to prop up the economy .
nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s capacity to get things done overseas is more than an attempt to distraction ; it also sends the message that the domestic-policy impasse is not his fault . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right . the obama administration knows the “ iron law of america politics ” ; “ it ’s ’s ’s the economy , stupid ” ; the same , like anyone else . so , in the months ahead , expect plenty of foreign-policy news to be swept up . obama has executed a far better foreign policy than his domestic policy , all the more surprising given the lame-duck hand that he is tackling : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model .
europeans will also see dismantling their country ’s welfare states and social-security systems ; cherished “ european model ” of pensions , medical care , and the unemployment burden is being replaced by a despised and widely feared “ american model . ” this is not to say , needless to say , as europeans crave the rigor of america ’s less cosseted social conditions , but because it is the only way europe ’s governments can stay afloat financially . the root cause of all of these developments is europe ’s population shrinkage . the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts debate over a decade or more is now exploding . but it is only one facet of europe ’s urgent need to import people from africa and asia .
the trouble is this : should a rogue state be allowed to throw away its provocations ? should a rogue state be allowed to disintegrate with its provocations ? they feel quashed in their belief that for most western governments , outrage about iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than as a lure in entrepreneurship . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short levels of military intervention are imperfect , and that it should be remotely efficient , require a degree of international solidarity that is generated only within exceptional circumstances . and they watch with glee at how europe , japan , and america negotiate rather than acting collectively , display the weakness of disunity .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as a gravest external threat to europe ’s recovery . european policymakers obsess about national “ competitiveness , ” ” ” and , genuinely , seems to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . that largely explains why germany is routinely cited as the example of strong , “ competitive ” economies . but rapid economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , has fueled productivity growth , rather than an ability to capture an increasing share of global markets . whereas imports must of course be financed with exports , the focus on trade competitiveness attracts attention from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
and more efficient battery cells capture the global value of electric cars , the heavier the agglomeration effects . china currently controls the entire electric car value chain , including the deployment of cobalt , an essential raw material in battery manufacturing . as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells ; the united states costs 15 % ( in tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ” ” ” ” ” in nevada ) ; and europe is just 4 % . nonetheless , europe could still develop its battery output through recycling old electronics , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits . this , in turn , would be a momentous shift .
but breakthrough technology companies like apple , facebook , and twitter are also dependent on people with access to well-funded education systems . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking – particularly their level of fiscal thinking – to put the people first . governments that make it their central ambition to maximize human well-being will end up encouraging not just higher economic growth , but also the nurturing of healthier politics . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need more bureaucratic red tape to take on greater risks to entrepreneurs . and while there is a growing “ tech for europe ’s good ” sector , it will succeed only if support for the up-to-date infrastructure , which broadly requires public outlays .
for example , they are untenable in rich countries , with farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment , effectively blocking an agreement to open up new markets for goods and manufactures – which account for more than 90 % of jobs . pro-trade forces alone will be able to speak up for a political process that is in place . for their part , the initiative will need to come from the top if the case is to be made within every country for more open markets and more time to help make those facing adjustment . every country will need to deliver ; no country can be expected to incur the burden alone . in developing countries , pro-trade voices could help to turn the conversation toward opportunities for global integration , rather than highlight exceptions .
inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq , as well as a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states , does not necessarily translate into the loss of iranian influence . indeed , iran ’s prompt support for shia-led iraq was partly intended to preempt competition from regional adversaries . but iranian critics of us intervention appear to believe that there is a middle way . iran has already countenanced the removal of maliki in favor of haider al-abadi ; and if broader policy reconsideration is needed to quell this is a threat , hence it . iran ’s hawks might believe their country is invincible , but fear is mounting that regional overreach could trigger a long list of spoils .
in houston , the authorities were prepared for a harvard partly because of the lessons learned coming from hurricane katrina that devastated new orleans by 2005 . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 was killed throughout harvey . the impact of the lessons being learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , odisha residents of odisha state were being warned early to cyclone phailin ’s arrival . by the time the storm made landfall , many people had already evacuated .
for catalan separatists , this means that they are now confronting what the political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . if catalonia wants to abandon spain , why should not barcelona have a right to abandon catalonia ? and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” ” ” ” ” ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors for preventing this from happening ? given that the status quo is unstable , and that independence makes it impossible , many believe , that catalonia ’s only solution amounts to more fiscal autonomy . but this , too , is unlikely , in the near term .
even that futile scenario may well be optimistic , for it assumes that talks get off the ground , an impossible feat if israel maintains its illicit construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such actions are not simply unjust ; they amount to a violation of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( the us , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution demanded , for example , that israel instantly and terminates all settlement activity in occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem ” – activities that amount to “ flagrant breaches under international law . ” any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions on both sides – the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with calming the conflict , and trump ’s administration ’s issue chief negotiator , jason greenblatt , seem to understand this .
the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called the “ one belt , one road ” project that xi christened the “ century project , ” is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to boost commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , seize the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” in doing so , however , china is not openly challenging the foundations of a liberal order . the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are not prepared to risk the fundamentals of its domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the remarkable communiqué from world leaders participating at the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promote “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , human rights , gender equality , ” and female empowerment .
the best way forward is to focus on the essentials . some iii of an blocked constitutional treaty is merely a compendium of existing eu treaties , which work , because such treaties will remain in place regardless of whether they are a part of any new paper , can be decoupled from the rest of the eu . the question , then , is whether the new leaders , as early as next month are successful in bringing out vitally important institutional reforms that the enlarged union calls for . part ii of a stalled documentary , the eu charter of fundamental rights , can be deferred . to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit would widen without a clearly defined common rights .
but , for europe , there is a more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance is more necessary today than ever , and is far stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . this applies to the nations of europe , and it is . forget , indeed , that short-term electoral politics is there or at stake . in the longer term , this is fundamentally an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law . as the world changes and opens up across borders of nations and a culture that values will govern the twenty-first century ?
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . similarly , just a few months ago , two police vice ministers , transportation minister and a former chief executive of state petroleum company , all were all brought to the court of charges relating to state property sales to private companies at a loss . taking together these cases point to high levels of state capture , a form of corruption , rife within former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private-sector actors exploit insiders to win control over public institutions and assets . otherwise , if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
and merkel herself will attempt to avoid becoming a minority coalition with the fdp in order to avoid becoming addicted to it . a german minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing ; in fact , given the spd ’s inability , dying linke ( the left ’s left ) , together with the greens , to block legislation . the fdp , for its part , wants such a government largely for precisely this reason . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . a minority coalition that included the greens would force the csu to agree on migration issues and climate policies that are unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , dying linke ( the left ’s left ) , and the greens to block legislation .
chinese corporations ’ high levels of debt might be a source of financial instability , even though a few officials have been stressing the lack of concern . though beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , a significant number of poverty remains . china is still a low-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , roughly one fourth of that level in the united states . it is revealing that to reach the five-year plan for eliminating extreme poverty by 2020 , which requires reducing the number of extremely poor people by about 55 million , the un poverty line is defined as just $ 354 a year , or less than one dollar per day . one us treasury minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists going abroad last year used their loan card to procure about $ 1 trillion of goods they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some of these european and american branded goods are actually being manufactured in china ) .
yet those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historic record of failed one-party regimes might benefit when they read leon trotsky , who knew something about revolutions . in fact , another explanation is fear of contemplating the unknown . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . dictatorships are seen as indestructible prior to fall , trotsky reminds us ; but their demise is viewed as unavoidable once again . ccp rule may not last , but an alternative – state failure and civil chaos – could be far worse than the status quo .
neusoft ’s devices looked like little personal computers with sensors attached to it . after moving on to produce car audio devices , liu jiren , neusoft ceo , started hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of a specialized x-rays , maine , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machines ( such as those manufactured by ge , philips , siemens , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a new deal was born – by many estimates , but by many accounts – new businesses were born . neusoft had begun as a low-cost competitor to a oracle company . liu had realized that neusoft can link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a host of digital sensors .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany today is calling the shots , not only in the european union , but throughout all of europe . within germany , there have been unending debates about german identity politics , with what one historian has called “ the continual dispute about what is german might entail . ” but , in a foreign-policy sense , postwar western germany , and later a reunified germany is utterly predictable : never vis-à-vis the west ; always for more europe . now the berlin republic is extremely secure about its identity – and seemingly at sea in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for the nature of the change .
while only about 49 % of the manufacturing startups and 37 % of the information startups survive for four or more years , in many countries those that have managed to produce breakthrough innovations have turned out to be critical . as it stands , we should have the courage to take on risk when they are thoughtful risks … . we need to forgive mistakes that were made because someone was attempting to engage aggressively in a company ’s own interest . in fact , startup companies exemplifies the potential benefits of risk-bearing capacity . tom watson , jr. , leading ibm through its decades of robust growth , is well known for having backed brilliant blunders . and the oversight that roberto kelvin ’s estimate suggests , the possibility that the fluid motion could efficiently transport warmth within a earth ’s ’s other ’s ’s ’s homeland , turned out to be critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does n’t augur all-out war .
russia resent the mounting economic insecurity brought about by the sanction trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , started after russia ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 ( a move initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . in fact , popular discontent in russia has inflamed authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which included increases in the retirement age . now , more than ever , putin needs america ’s friendship with him over time . although he was reelected president in march , his approval rating has since plummeted to more than 45 % . depending on putin , he rooted for trump ( though , of course , he has not interfered in trump ’s behalf ) , because they have shared the desire to improve the bilateral relationship .
in its haste to have westerners bought into the banks , the imf abandoned one detail : to ensure that south korea could recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . to be sure , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represents ) gains from capital-market liberalization : they make money like capital flows in , as they flow back and down , and during a restructuring that occurs in the ensuing havoc . in south korea , the imf urged selling countries ’ banks to american investors , even as koreans managed their own economies impressively for more than four decades of higher gdp , more stability , and out of the systemic scandals that have marked us financial markets with such frequency . on some issues , us firms bought up , held on hold until korea recovered , and then re-sold , reaping billions of capital gains . whether america ’s investors had greater banking expertise in emerging markets can be debatable ; the fact is that they have larger utility in tax avoidance is not .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , died . just a year earlier , in a poll on a eminent philosophy web site , parfit voted the world ’s leading living anglophone philosopher . parfit was not a household names ; he was the subject himself , no doubt , that he was . of all those philosophers i have known since who began studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest man to a genius . reaching a philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he had already thought of every response i could make in his arguments , thought a few potential replies , and knew objections to every reply as do the best counters to those objections .
but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures , and the stigma attached to an epidemic that is too frequently sexually transmitted . few of the therapeutic , if any , therapeutic , and diagnostic options have been available . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest obstacle to mastering china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own political failures , and the stigma attached to diseases in which they are frequently sexually transmitted .
comparing the outcomes of the two simulations suggests that large export flows of palestinian labor to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by imposing upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . this confirms the massive short-run welfare costs to palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor markets . but the level of average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain far below those of the latter strategy than they would be if israeli labor markets were gradually reopened at the palestinian labor market . such simulations have also suggested that continuing dependence on exports of labor outcomes in favor of less growth potential for the palestinian economy than does any development strategy based on exporting goods . which trade policies might boost commodity exports rather than labor ?
following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after more than 30 years in power , many hoped for the economic decline that he oversaw would soon reverse . but , one year and a half later , the us economy is showing no sign of recovery , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what travails zimbabwe ?
but , in that case , as a son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serving a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler is unwilling to reflecting on those sins voluntarily ? apparently , the chinese were tone-deaf politically in choosing an architect whose name carry such dark historical connotations . the name of speer itself probably did n’t matter . totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets , the soviets in 1980 , and now china in the 1980 ’s , and so on – crave to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world of their supremacy . china believes that it has found its own model to develop and modernize , and its rulers regard the games in much the same way that nazis and leonid brezhnev did , as a vehicle for “ selling ” their model to a global audience .
the way to square this apparent circle is by pointing out that we love our motherland not because of a faulty sense of ethnic or racial superiority , but because it stands for noble , universal values . macron may proudly call himself a french patriot , because france gave a global liberal liberté , égalité and fraternité . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has called constitutional patriotism ( others have repudiated it in civic patriotism ) . there are practical implications to do so . during the recent dutch elections , liberals might argue about respecting the rights of migrants , because respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can take pride .
instead , its leaders , particularly their chief prosecutor , the swedish attorney fatou bensouda , must seize recent criticism as a motivation to show that they are up to the task . to succeed , the icc will need to overcome robust resistance , delivered not just from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump . in april , at a time when the icc was determining whether to proceed with its investigations of war crimes in afghanistan – including any that may have been perpetrated by american forces , the trump administration revoked the seat of the tribunal ’s chief prosecutor . if the icc is to fulfill the role to which it has been created , it can neither bestow nor enable its deficient performance to continue . carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates for two years . the reasons are clear : since the world experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” ” ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries maintain very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while rapid growth in emerging economies contrasts the expansionary policies they adopted during recessions . this asymmetry spurred enormous capital flows from the former to the latter , most likely to continue . the problem is compounded by the fact that one of countries undertaking expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues the paramount global currency . the emerging economies worry that this accumulation of capital will drive up their currencies ’ exchange rates , in addition to fueling current-account and asset bubbles that past experiences have taught them , is something to say , a recipe for future crises .
moore ’s mortality figures appear to be high , but there can be no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , especially in parts of africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , containing blindness in about 250,000-500,000 preschool children each year , about half of whom will die in just 12 months . deficiency also increases susceptibility to diseases like measles , despite one that falls short of vaccination rates in young children . inadequate vitamin a also has a significant factor in high maternal mortality rates during pregnancy and childbirth . greenpeace , together with other organizations opposing the use of genetically modified tobaca ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the establishment of a beta carotene , which is converted in the human body into vitamin a. .
the implication of this was obvious . in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight against what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that the excess demand for some specific set of assets in financial markets reflected an excess supply of goods and services in product markets that in turn generated the excess supply of workers in labor markets . so , what lessons does history have to do to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? to relieving excess demand for financial assets , you also cured an outsize supply of goods and services ( a shortfall in aggregate demand ) , and an excess of labor supply ( mass unemployment ) .
it is a gap viewed in areas as diverse as health care , educational attainment , and combating climate change . similarly , bec pledged to boost the work of others by adopting “ flexible early access , ” providing seed , angel , and series of investments with expectations that once those investments de-risking them , traditional commercial capital would invest in later stages ” . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s ’s problems on their own . that ’s why chan zuckerberg initiative was designed for maxim flexibility , enabling funds to flow into non-profits , directed at private investment , or used to assist in influencing policy debates . no single actor , whether it is the government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , or a group of investors , can solve today ’s really big problems on its own .
the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer , more just place where a person ’s economic destiny does not depend entirely on where those who happens to be born . but a more cynical view is permeates populist logic , namely that in its over-adherence to globalism , america has sown the seeds of its own political and economic ruin . american populists , perhaps inspired by the writings of thomas piketty , seem unimpressed by actually lifting hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here ’s someone who thinks he can do something about it . the goal is not simply to “ bring home ” american jobs to the us , but to create a system to expand american dominance .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and us forces , and reintroduced tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional power would add little to the able forces already on the ground , and bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would merely make the two sides more anxious ( and offshore american naval forces have already pack a sufficient punch to reinforce deterrence ) . another approach would seek a normalization of diplomacy , on the premise that this may enhance communication , thereby diminishing the nuclear threat . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist administration will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the insulation that it needs to remain in power . yet , under such a scenario , north korea could hold back relations hostage to such outsize demands for american forces from the region , and the economic and energy assistance there to prop up the regime .
in spain , the majority of migrants until recently came from culturally similar latin american countries . in both countries , the far right lacked the breeding ground that it had elsewhere . thus , a populist backlash in latin america , – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most glaring – venezuela took a leftist form . the story is similar in the main two exceptions to a right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . in greece , the main policy fault lines were the austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund .
this was coupled with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . on december 19 , 2003 , libya has formally renounced all wmd efforts . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to the status of pariah . eight years later , pinned down by an american mad drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi was meeting his demise , not least for some time . british and american negotiators were also meeting in secret with libyan counterparts to resolve the case for the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism .
botswana ’s stunning annual per capita income growth averaged about 13 % over the past decade was accompanied by the decline , from almost six children per woman , to under four . the math is simple : more people mean everyone gets less ( on average ) less . why is rapid population growth bad for a rural standard of living ? the quality of children in poor households goes down , as their quantity goes , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in each child ’s education to ensure that the future adult benefits from a crucial determinant of the economic success . a growing population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also its human capital .
but this does mean understanding that even a democracy has many rules , ideally the rules that most elected but are mostly not directly chosen ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives who can argue and negotiate within a person , reflecting the overall preferences of those whom they are elected . that may sound a bit too much like the old system . what the modernizers need is a coherent force , and most likely a political party , rather than simply continuing to rely on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of the crowd to govern . like it or not , they can not do that , as a flower baby brigade ; they need to choose leaders who can talk to and negotiate for them . this does not mean that backing activists should abandon the cause .
assuming that current occupational and sector-by-sector patterns hold , women could gain access to more than 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to less than 19 % for men . rising incomes ; rising demands for healthcare , maternal care services , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology would create new opportunities for work . given the sectoral and occupational distribution of these opportunities , women might be slightly better positioned to take advantage of them . this miniscule benefit to women reflects the robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where women are well represented . indeed , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers ; in india , that sector could comprise one-quarter of future job gains for women ( making it reasonable than men ’s ) .
it was a new year ’s eve in 2003 , during a concert in the newly-opened house of music in moscow . directly across the aisle from me , putin was sitting between a one-time dissident cellist and conductor mstislav rostropovich , and his other famous wife , the army of opera diva , galina vishnevskaya . russia ’s leader was like kid in a candy store – thrilled to be surrounded by such cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were clearly flattered to putin ’s adoration ( and their proximity to power ) . i myself was once witnessed by putin courting the culture .
in an effort to revive growth in a difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government unleashed monetary and fiscal policy beginning in november 1997 . but gdp growth soon rebounded by alarming rates . by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to fall , producer prices had already been trending downward for eight months , remaining negative for a full of 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after 39 months . an obvious lesson is that the government should have made the switch to loosening earlier and more forcefully . nonetheless , gdp growth soon rebounded to a alarming rate .
so , have we now shifted from piketty ’s r > g world to blanchard the r < g world ? if so , is it possible that their views have been reconciled with one another ? piketty and blanchard ’s views can indeed be reconciled because they talk about different interest rates . whereas blanchard fixates on the rate on low-risk government bonds , piketty worries about a return to risky capital investments . the answer , then , is no and yes .
perhaps the risk that greek debt restructuring would trigger a financial meltdown had always been minimal and quiescent markets were to expect . but that is n’t because the banks were preparing themselves by raising more capital . banks went bankrupt and there is no sign of bleeding dominicans . by contrast , in comparison with their likely future losses , european banks generated relatively little capital in recent years , and much of it was creative accounting rather than actually loss-absorbing shareholder equity . but , for that to happen , why do all the fuss really tell us ?
moreover , the benefits are generous in ensuring that short-run unemployment does not force workers to sell their houses or even automobiles . that way , economically irrational lock-in effects whereby workers simply can not afford to change job losses are avoided . in the scandinavian countries , as opposed to , say , germany and switzerland , a government , not an individual company , is liable to take most of the social benefits from them . the system protects not only the unemployed who can continue paying their mortgages and the interest in them ; what can be done is by banks itself , because their loans to households are being rerepaid even during times of recession . and , rather than solving all kinds of economically created private-sector problems , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs .
but , having suffered currency and capital-account crises with more openness , many emerging-market economies still feel that they are compelled to accumulate enormous reserves in order to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has vanished . in the meantime , national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis . public investment and underlying social protection can help to turn this around by creating millions of jobs . while the failure to boost growth in financial globalization has exacerbated volatility and instability .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ to attack our family ’s institutions , respect it with disdain or doubts about its essential role , the pope and the grand imam of the state , “ is one of the most threatening the evils of our era . ” a document asserts that an family is a “ fundamental nucleus ” of community and mankind ” and “ is essential in bringing its children into the world , raising them , educating them , and providing robust moral formation and domestic safety . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under age 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is universally recognized that the young are often left behind . unless it is addressed through youth socioeconomic and political engagement , achieving many in the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will become impossible . unless it is addressed through youth socioeconomic and political engagement , achieving the mdgs will be sustainable . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could drive additional iranian provocations .
while trade has soared , investment lags , and russia ranks only tenth among china ’s export markets . russia ’s economic decline has intensified its anxiety over the rise of china . as the economist pointed out recently , russia worries about becoming a junior partner alliance – much more dependent on china than china does on russia . no country came more land out of china than russia did in the nineteenth century , and the current demographic situation in the far east – where russians accounted for six million and russian-speaking populations of 120 million with a border is as high as 120 million – provides a source of anxiety in moscow . according to meng yujun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship to the us is with america . ”
florence – in phaedrus , wolf ’s well-known fable and lamb , wolf was easy to consume a lamb with no word but prefer to set its own “ cause . ” wolf then snarls that , if it was not a lamb , was his father ; after that , he moves into action immediately . wolf ’s “ justifications ” for his nasty action was the luxury that he has allowed himself . first , he scolds a lamb that he muddying his drinking water ( even as the wolf was upstream ) . then he argues that last year a lamb called him the wrong names ( but a lamb was just six months old ) .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . indeed , arlington , virginia – the election has left one of the world ’s biggest countries deeply divided , hand over the presidency to military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing firebrand promising to smash a corrupt establishment . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . i am not speaking of america ’s 2016 presidential election , which placed donald trump in power ; but rather brazil ’s 2018 election won by so-called trump in the mid-1990s , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 .
this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extraordinarily affluent men , including a few foreign-policy billionaires named daoud and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes on the super-rich and abolishing government subsidies to the rural poor , such as the social security guarantee and president barack obama ’s health-care roadmap . at the same time , she then quickly came to seem selfish , if understandable , from a tea party movement itself . in fact , it seemed an oddly – and for many – transition : from king a brilliant plea to civil rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés about the military . that agenda may seem selfish , if understandable , from a billionaire ’s perspective . but then there was something odd about the entire event , just as there is something odd about the tea party movement itself .
although the level of their religious commitment varies , they share a strong emotional attachment to the faith that gives francis i considerable political leverage in the future . moreover , they govern the countries in which catholics derive an overwhelming majority . of course , they all have their own identities and strengths , but will miss protections for chávez ’s global influence , as well as for his subsidies . at the same time , latin america will undoubtedly be one of francis ’s priorities . the beginning of his papacy finds populist governments in a vulnerable situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent demise .
but obama can not , and so far , do that neither the american public , nor the american congress , appears committed to reconnecting with its moral compass . the response to the second major question shaping the world ’s future is whether china will once again regain its economic momentum , which also appears to be “ no , ” at least in the short run , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export – and investment-led growth model all but has exhausted its potential . we must take the world forward , through deed and example . not even revelations by former us intelligence contractor edward j. snowden that no one is exempt from potential american surveillance have stirred american demands for a new approach . it should be unreasonable , with the us congress blocking the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees exposed by a us national-security committee .
to fill the prescription of a medicine with a well-known pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can obtain rapid genotyping to set adequate doses , a drug , or predilection for severe spillover effects . genotyping can now be accomplished in about 20 minutes , and over time achieves a faster pace . this has paved the way for next-generation pharmacies . nevertheless , substantive and remarkable progress has been achieved , all around for the last couple of years . moreover , someday , we will know that through sequencing the entire genome , about rarer amid genomic variations , which are tied to therapeutic response or spillover effects .
the financial crisis produced a new answer to where the greatest competitive advantage lie . from the banks ’ ’ ’ perspective , the clearest lesson was the need for a strong national government to incur the potential cost of saving . very big banks in small territories that are run by small-scale governments , making them vulnerable . it is no longer subject to the most competent regulatory regime , but rather where a state has deepest pockets . america is large enough to deal with the behemoths like the bank of america or citigroup .
early european exploration is most likely to have continued this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species that were known to have expired between 1500 and 1800 is rising , as taxonomists describe the new species from the skeletal remain finding they , for example , where the bones survives . at the same time , we have made comparable analyses concerning the destiny of the caribbean and indian ocean islands , following first human contact , but it is likely that large numbers of extinctions have materialized there , too . linneaus has invented the modern naming process in the mid-1700 ’s , though naming did not quite get under way until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 . many of these searches are far from complete .
and europe is already confronting many significant challenges , including russian aggression toward ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth . the plight of the millions of refugees represents not only some humanitarian tragedy , but also its economic and strategic toll to regional and european countries . syria , iran , iraq , yemen , and libya all deal with a mix of civil and proxy wars , and that of others . the plight of the millions of refugees represents not only some humanitarian tragedy , but also some economic and strategic toll to regional and european countries . the plight of the millions of refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic toll on the region and europe .
this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , yemen , and argentina . droughts have hit kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa have suffered from significant water shortages . these movements have created the space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to widen , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go . lethal wildfires have claimed lives , destroying trillions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia .
indeed , this is the starting point for an important dialogue , which is expected to take its place . the stakes for both africa and the us are high . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and strong partnerships with the us will be vital to africa through continued growth and development . the choices that we make today will have the implications for generations to come . we owe it to our descendants and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs are already leading the charge – get it right .
paris -- some countries are , naturally , at ease with both the concepts and the realities of their strategic might . such was clearly the case with france under louis xiv , sun king in seventeenth-century bc , and such is the case with china today , whose leadership is comfortable with classical europe ’s balance-of-power games . still , to comprehend india ’s political and civilizing relations with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in the 1920 ’s . in economic terms , india ’s trust was boosted by how the western world now views it with a mix of respect and greed : “ what type of deals can i strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon be any country ’s largest ? ” india is clearly in an otherwise different category , to be sure .
in both america and europe , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on economic-policy issues believe that equal opportunities exist for all children , with free-market economies being fair . the reverse holds for those calling themselves economically “ liberal . ” such people favor government interference because it believes that , left to its own devices , markets will not ensure fairness and perhaps even more inequality . views about social mobility are incompatible across the political spectrum , or across geographic regions . an even more striking pattern emerges when americans become overly optimistic about upward social mobility in parts of a country where actual mobility was low , including georgia ’s southeastern states , alabama ’s , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
but the consolidation of the retail sector , driven partly by walmart and amazon , has dealt a deathblow to many such companies . the grocer , coffee shop , and barber go out of business and everybody leave to transform the eu into a ghost town . the disruption can be due , not just to , to industrial closure . once upon a time , much of the relatively minor department-store chains and other house retailers spread throughout american companies , and outlets in several towns . those headquarters have brought income into their town by providing back-office services to their shops .
the republicans now must choose between passing their own tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to gdp ) and pursuing a much more modest reform . for three reasons , the first scenario is unlikely . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to reckless increases in us public debt . the bat does not have sufficient backing even among republicans , and it would breach the rules of the world trade organization . the house republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall for the coming decade and can not plug that hole in the revenue saving rate from their health-care reform plan , or with the “ 1.2 trillion ” that it might expect from a baton .
if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , it borrows fewer from ( or lends more to it ) the rest of the world . part of the analytical attractiveness of domestic income accounts is that they add up . its net export position , and the current-account balance improves , is rising . but that has not happened , in the case of it . such resilience will be tested over the longer run , albeit because of factors ranging from fiscal and external imbalances to the impediments to data revision .
first , when it comes to climate change , the important point seems that you are actually doing something . the 2015 paris climate agreement provides a perfect example of this . countries have generated a grandiose determination to keep the global increase in temperature well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels ; but all their promises combined add up to less than 1 % of what is needed . new analysis shows that just 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – actually join their pledges , most of them because they have promised very little . countries managing that can get away with massaging their data .
as a result , vast regions of our planet , currently home to more than billions of people , could become uninhabitable . earlier unfccc conferences sought to reach legally binding emission-reduction agreements , at least for industrialized countries , which today have generated most of those greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered , owing partly to american intransigence under president george w. bush and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the us has never signed ) . instead , a copenhagen accord merely demanded countries to pay voluntary pledges to cut their own emissions by concrete amounts . for its part , thawing siberian permafrost will emit massive quantities of methane at most .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency in march , he called for the creation of a mechanism for european preemptive diplomacy and obligatory consultation in the event of a threat to any state ’s security . had such a mechanism been established , the worst cases in ukraine might have been averted . of course , political leaders blame filing away these and other “ european ” ideas ” ” ” ” ” in the archives . but much must also be shared with europe ’s political class , its civil-society institutions , and its media . though i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it will be extremely difficult not pessimistic as 2014 comes to a close .
and progress is hardly limited to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland produces electric buses ; and austria leads when it comes to green buildings . but , as european leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator . when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , which asked to take the lead on energy talks at the un summit , has integrated huge quantities of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , which will run an industrial workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant in the first place .
one result of the deal is a kind of paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with difference . ” the tolerance of others of ’s religions is the price that paid for one ’s own tolerance . because migrant workers participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are accustomed to different kinds of people , and so are distinctions that might harm the country against those that wo n’t . in fact , prejudice has tended to decline as participation rises . it has been in nobody ’s interest to disturb this live-and let-live pragmatism for a very long time .
based on our own experiences -- in mexico , which has opened itself up to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , that is a leading donor of aid and a major source of private investment in developing countries -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and solidly . this is why , when un secretary general kofi annan and the un development program administrator denmark brown asked the us to take the lead on a new private sector and development commission , we agreed . entrepreneurial energy is already there : visit the tiniest town in the poorest country on the market day , and you will see the private sector lead in action . so , as long as small firms can expand beyond villages , they could steer their countries ’ growth better than any assistance agency . this keeps small undertakings in poor nations and regions from reaching their full potential .
moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump demonstrate that he has a good fix on the president ’s psyche . and yet , even if he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama , from firing missiles over japan to conducting frequent purges at home , suggests that he knows how to command the stage and pull trump into the table . regardless of when a second summit arrives , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime . there is no guarantee that it will not repeat that gambit . so far , it has proven extremely effective at keeping bromance alive , with a forthcoming high-level summit on track .
in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries for transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state is failing to provide basic security : an olympic ice-skating mediterranean medalist , denis ten , was assassinated , at broad daytime , at the heart of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to block his car mirrors that he was stolen . all of this made emigration an increasingly appealing option , especially to young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” at the same time , it turned the warmth of simmering social unrest that had boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended explicitly to preempt popular protest ) . amid its weaknesses in inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified .
the challenge of job creation for the saudis may seem like a riches problem . yet simple substitution will not do anything good . some would argue that all of the kingdom needs to do is a substitute saudi for foreign workers in existing positions . but whenever the kingdom has attempted public-sector hiring efforts , unemployment has soared . under the prevailing system of incentives , authorities ’ plans for privatizing firms and improving civil-service productivity will in fact destroy the employment-occupied saudis .
but so , too , is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency could substitute for fiat money . the whole point of money is that it enables parties to transact , without having to become barter . as a result , the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate alongside it , not just contradicts the very concept of money ; it is utterly idiotic . in the us , the reason that we do n’t use euros or yen against dollars is obvious : doing so would be nonsensical and make the economy far less efficient . but , for money to have a value and generate economies of scale in order to do so simultaneously .
this means ensuring that disruptions caused by us short-termism do not present a longstanding systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . minimizing the faltering war risks undermining these efforts , because facing america at the negotiating table requires china to bolster its own position above all else . minimizing the faltering legitimacy will require both sides to recognize that in an interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their own positions become self-defeating when they undermine global stability and dynamism . the trade war has thrown that lesson into sharp relief , in turn . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut and dry than the cold war was .
to prompt a move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement will have to be applicable across countries ; it includes a shared and consistent scheme of monitoring , reporting , and verifying ; and providing strong economic incentives on a global scale . our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by a “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed or given a bonus depending on their vehicle for co2 emissions . in our own system , a country exceeding the global per capita emissions average would pay a specified amount on each ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could allow for a rapid reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases . at the same time , they emphasize the knock-on benefits that take rapid climate-change action could have , including reduction of local pollution , greater energy and food security , faster innovation .
when there is no excess demand for money , there will be no excess supply for bonds and stocks that underpin and finance the economy ’s productive capital . three months ago , i argued that all but the minor and unsurpassed fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant in a downturn , and i was right . expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations is thus the first item on a checklist of what to do during a financial crisis . thus , expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations by a central bank is the first item on a checklist of what is to be done during a financial crisis . i was also correct to say that all but the minuscule and unsurpassed fringe of economists approves of central-bank stability safeguards to prevent the risk of a balance-sheet collapse from turning into a preorder fix boosting demand for cash to unnatural levels .
the eastward enlargement of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . for starters , it relies on the claim that in the days of the berlin wall ’s collapse and the disintegration of the soviet union , the west had promised that no nato expansion would exist . in fact , none other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato ’s eastward enlargement in the 1990s on precisely those grounds . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the decline of the wall , accused the west of not keeping off the pledge that it had made in 1989 , instead exploiting russia ’s faltering ” by claiming “ monopoly leadership and world domination , ” including through nato ’s enlargement .
even as its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf undoubtedly still conscious of the panglossian view it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is emerging “ vulnerable to precipitous tightening of financial conditions , ” and that “ equity valuations appear stretched beyond certain markets . ” with this in mind , “ some ” is the imf code for the united states . the american stock of global equity valuations is the highest it ever was , a striking statistic give a declining us share of global economic activity . so how should we give a glimpse of all of these warnings ? the international monetary fund has gotten into the act as well . america ’s market-sharing of global equity valuations is the highest it ever was .
which interest rates are the best way to make comparisons is a matter of debate , as are the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason to use the often-recorded government bond offer , adjusted for inflationary expectations . to do so , the adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as introduced on june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1,0590 . given that the us dollar was trading at roughly $ 1.1250 against the euro on a day , this suggests that the dollar actually was around 6 % weaker than it otherwise would have been . now , to be sure , the 6 % is not a particularly significant difference , and that finding may mean nothing in all . i have also developed what i have called the adjusted gboe , which is dominating the “ equilibrium ” exchange rate in the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america and the eurozone .
the banks defaulted on their loans , and the creditors took up large “ haircuts ” ( reductions in principal value ) ( reducing principal value ) . but – and here ’s the point , with its debts being written off , the us banking system is now recapitalized and unable to stimulate economic growth . a kazakh government , scrambling to support its over-tended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave in and decided to pull the plug . the banks defaulted on their loans , and the creditors picked up huge “ haircuts ” ( reducing principal value ) . but the kazakh government , scrambling to support its intemperate private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave in and decided to pull the plug .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time , we reach just 8 % of the world ’s 760,000 children . just $ 230 per year per person are in school for basic needs like water , food , and shelter , with less than $ 10 per child going toward education . this year needs to be learning its moment , a window of opportunity opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , including by lowering maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job-creating , improving the quality of life , and opening our minds to questions about gender equality . but , most important , that is indeed a learning moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holds a book up to insurgent ’s gun in pakistan , when teenage mothers are exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda make education for their children their top priority ; and when lights saw from the space could include child clusters huddled by candlelight and study , we know that education ’s moment has arrived .
over the past two decades , the world has become used to shape us-led international coalitions for war in the middle east . president jimmy carter used that to bring about the 1978 camp david accords , establishing diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . and us secretary of state james baker used it to transcend israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . if the us can not provide that today , it must relinquish its monopoly on resolution of international conflict . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , alter north korea ’s behavior or stop the syrian civil war on its own .
by appeasing terrorist groups in such a manner , the world ’s most powerful states give the green light to terrorists not just in the balkans but around the world . so , before the anti-terror campaign seeking other terrorist outposts to destroy the state of the un itself , they should eliminate terror in a place in which the un itself is the ruling out . if the world fails to eradicate terrorist recruiters from politics in kosovo , what hope is that they have of defeating terrorism elsewhere ? if not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves as much the kind of humanitarian values that they are using to justify their “ humanitarian ” interventions . kosovo is a region far smaller than afghanistan .
soon , a few early geneticists , the founders of eugenics movement , made the rigid assertion that “ licentiousness , ” the “ drawer , ” and “ criminality ” could all but be attributed to individual genes in the same way . the view that an individual gene could account for an absolute biological trait is as old as an genetics itself . as time passed and scientific expertise accumulated -- much of it from a fruit fly -- the true complexity of a gene ’s relationship to characteristics became obvious . as time passes and science accumulated -- much of it from a fruit fly -- the true complexity of a gene ’s relations became obvious . if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behavior becomes so complex , is it any less so with humans ?
and , after all , one can not have a definitive , utopian society without having one final , a scientific theorist of human behavior coupled with some of the mad scientists or the philosophes to preside over a entire affair . the problem is that no matter how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs have been formulated , it is still false . the form of capitalism , among others , is a struggle among the individual over the control of scarce resources . like boxing and poker , it is soft-, restrained , private form of warfare . military strategists have known for centuries that there is and could be no definitive science of warfare .
paris – earlier this week , following days of strained discussion , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors , which included an immediate reform package and a four-month extension of the financing assistance program . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , disagreements do not exclude the need for tough negotiations on the new program of financial-aid to be introduced until june . in any negotiations , a key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what an agreement anywhere would cost each of them . in this scenario , greece ’s exit costs ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone , a prospect that has been broadly discussed in the media throughout recent negotiations , with considerable speculation about the stance taken by different players , particularly the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be hugely disruptive , explaining why very little support is in poland .
cnn reported it “ neither equitable nor free . ” but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture , either . consider kazakhstan , where some five million people cast ballots in spain for the lower house of parliament . cnn reported that it was “ neither equitable nor free . ” elections in strangers to democracy are never quite pretty news , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as any election in iraq is likely .
just as india was getting away with its stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s ’s , successive governments understood the imperative of achieving economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) has challenged the 2004 elections on a pro-development platform encapsulated in the slogan “ india ’s shining . ” it is largely a matter of provision for public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . satisfying the role of demand for such goods is in itself a source of growth . but , too , a reliable road creates fast additional activity , as trade increases among interconnected areas and myriad corporations , restaurants , and hotels spring the way down . and , unlike in many equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a host of world-class corporations , which can enlist efforts to provide these public goods .
yet berlusconi ’s government did next to nothing to address these weaknesses , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive with a full five-year electoral term . with its parliamentary majority joining an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could pursue coherent supply-side reforms , even at the risk of some initial unpopularity . its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure was unfit for new challenges , owing both to its firm size and its specialization in traditional industries , as well as to low education levels and r & d. a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid child intervention and a further increase in labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give sound incentives to restructuring , while also meant stopping privatization .
yet , despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is afoot in a black africa : a stealthy rise in the high-technology sector . if not quite representing an africa “ silicon valley , ” those shoots of a high-tech industrial industry nonetheless may and must be nurtured if africa is to flourish . consider what happens on a few floors of a single high-rise executive office buildings in accra , ghana ’s capital . certain 1,500 africans process american health-insurance claims – work around the clock , three shifts . africans speak english ; type at at at least 50 words a computer ; take the data from a paper assertion of the forms that are supplied by american health insurers through satellite channels ; put it into new digital forms ; and ships that return to the u.s. .
still , the westphalian system disintegrated during the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both in reality , as europe ’s wars to world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans , even victorious european allies , were effectively stripped of their sovereignty . the eu conceived as an attempt to regain european sovereignty peacefully by pooling the national interests of european states . the westphalia system was replaced by the cold war ’s bipolar world order , aligning sovereignty with two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . the purpose of such efforts was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic head butting .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank stress testing . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright . given that many banks hold large quantities of eurozone government debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . if it falls more forthright about the risks , there is an opportunity that some periphery countries might eventually deal plugging the holes , requiring help from the north .
they should expand the reach of their investments to include ai-permitting technologies for mental-health-care delivery . and their investments should expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled mental-health-care delivery technologies . with expanded data , researchers should make use of fully representative testing groups while looking for care to follow severe privacy and accountability protocols . venture capital companies now spend $ 3.2 trillion annually on global health research and development . they could also fund competitions among socially conscious tech entrepreneurs to spur further innovation on this front . to be sure , such initiatives cost money .
consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth lab , which i established in 2006 , after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , we have been working on more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the laboratory looks a bit like a teacher and a research hospital . it targets both research and clinical work to serve “ patients , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” or governments in our case . yet a teaching-hospital model might also be effective in promoting public policy .
any sensible international trade regime must begin from the recognition that it is neither feasible nor desirable to constrain political space countries must step in with their own economic and social models . new england ’s fledgling textile mills were desperate for technology , and they did their best to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british artisans . and the us had as much respect for british industrialists , ’ trade secrecy as china does today over american intellectual property rights . american patent laws were nevertheless protected by the american people . as one historian of us business puts it , americans “ were pirates , too . ”
but if the world moves in that direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power will begin to take shape , and this reappearance at the beginning of a new international system . making every one of these changes will be challenging , and for the most part . yes , one might debate a third way or both and a half way ; or both and a half way , these are essentially peripheral debates . a second great change – ie , an end to the global ideological division itself , too , raises difficult , and possibly more complex issues . there today is fundamental , even an occasion of some ritualistic , consensus about the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for a political organization , with some form of free market , social responsibility , based on private entrepreneurship , as the cornerstone of economic activity .
finally , the regulated nature of cash flows would enable better pre-defined return structures than the traditional way that private or public capital can offer . developing the bhe would require a new platform of private-public investment , structured to provide bespoke returns for its various subscribers . public contributions , likely taken backstopped by the multilateral agency , would provide projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles . it would offer returns near those yielded through equity investments , but with some risk offset by its long nature . risk would be further corrected through the participation of big , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and possibly international financial institutions .
and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic power , can not be discounted . of course , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even hold tiny amounts of its currency in their reserve portfolios . but these actions may amount to a less mark the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance , rather than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as an widely accepted international currency . the capital inflows that will undoubtedly grow in the years ahead are driven largely by investors ’ appetite for diversification and soaring yield than by a country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , especially given china ’s ’s ’s ’s financial markets relatively underdeveloped and beset by significant risks . depending on how soon china opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve-currency in the near future .
amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the front set of issues , while retreating to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-interventionist stance on regional diplomacy . there are other us-mexican agenda issues , of course , ranging from intelligence sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like those of venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba . yet trump cares more about security issues than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s ’s ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be avoided . peasants in guerrero cultivate amazpola for cartels rather than livelihood on them . and america ’s drug-enforcement administration will not look benignly on any hindus from previous mexican presidents ’ commitments to continue waging the expensive , bloody , and futile war of drug choice in mexico .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s then-president pierre nkurunziza won a third term amid violent protest . similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of congo last year , following the introduction of a law that would enable president recep tayyip erdoğan to prolong his tenure . the au should demonstrate leadership on this front , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy in line with its agenda 2063 . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must take a stand against the “ ” of constitutional coups ” implemented by presidents , because it introduces itself more tightly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa . at the same time , the au has defied military coups in recent cases .
fertility rates among immigrants typically exceed those in native european or north american households . higher birth rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect the large number of immigrant families in each country . but increases in the number of immigrant workers will not necessarily lift birth rates . an aging population is contributing to europe ’s weak economic performance . germany , for example , has a large guest population , but few settle there with its families ; most will leave its children in their homes .
the actual culprits at the top such firms rarely need to worry about . in america 's media , news hardly made a ripple effect . impunity is widespread -- indeed , most of the corporate crimes are going astray . few , indeed , typically , drop out of a slender on the person 's wrists , meaning their shareholders , pick up a humble fine . of course , there have been no consequences for cheney .
for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestors – lived in small groups in which the violence could be inflicted only on themselves in an up-front and personal way by hitting , pushed , strangling , or using the stick or a stone club . greene finds that humans were asking to produce a moral judgment about “ personal ” violations , like that pushing an outsider off a footbridge , displayed heightened activity in brain areas linked to emotion . this was not the case with people being asked to turn judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations , like hurriedly turning a switch . moreover , subjects – who thought that it would have been right to push a stranger off a footbridge – took longer to reach that judgment than were people who said they would be wrong . why would our conviction and our emotions vary in this manner ?
in 1949 , britain found itself on the same footing , with its trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states , as well as in weak investor confidence . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years for trade deals with the eu and then on other partners . investors have every reason for taking a wait-and-see attitude . in september of that year , sterling was devalued again , as it had been for 18 years before , by more than 30 % . as a result , political uncertainty is high , with no prospect for a general election to be resolved anytime soon .
in fact , power led refah to compromise rather than extremes . it remained a vital member of nato , at least so far . in power , erbakan tempered its tone and actions . turkey continued to permit a u.a.e. s.-led “ operation provides comfort ” against iraq to use its turkish bases . indeed , relations with israel improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before -- a move carried out by miller but accepted by refah .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , a play whose title character is the proprietor of a few brothels . the play is hardly salacious and contains no coarse language , but was nonetheless eight years before it could have been staged . the play justifies her lucrative exploitation of prostitution ’s business from a feminist standpoint . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theater “ club , ” ” ” ostensibly confined to members . its performance in new york city in 1905 raided the police .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of jobless crises portending profound economic , political , and social ramifications . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double , to 840 million by 2050 , and yet africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s schools and universities are not generating enough graduates with the technical skills to succeed at tomorrow ’s workplace . every year , while some 13 million young people look to work in africa , only about three million are finding employment . but a crisis may be set back , and one solution may well be just as straightforward as turning on the lights . though the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs within a decade or two through its youth initiative , it is not immediately clear where those opportunities will emerge .
refusing to mention a two-state solution , trump ’s statements go the other way around , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or unaccountable international leader would ever accept this design , as was obvious in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let us be clear : a two-state solution does not mean accommodating israeli settlements ’ illicit realities ; rather , it means ending that colonial enterprise in the first place . now , plans are afoot to advocate for a future of peace and security in the middle east ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw , with the palestinians unwilling to participate . they have no calculation that the palestinian people enjoy dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , and insist that they are treated accordingly .
in any case , it is not as if avoiding a talk about israel is a departure for sanders . nor does israel seem to figure out a lot in its own jewish identity more tied to the memory of the holocaust than anything else . to be sure , sanders is hardly embraced by israel as a political cause , as is many other american jewish politicians . he certainly has not embraced israel as a political cause , as is many other american jewish politicians . despite having stated on the issue where the necessary , he was generally not outspoken on questions about the country .
the deal appears to have become the cornerstone of a wonderful new friendship between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . king salman embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and expressed support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nothing enunciated in human rights , much less women ’s rights , and the phrase “ democracy ” never passed trump ’s lips . instead , trump concluded an agreement to deliver $ 110 billion in advanced weaponry to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief business is business .
in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge both inflation and exchange-rate risk . because gold was $ 400 an ounce in each of these years , holding gold did nothing to offset the decline in the dollar ’s value . the same goes for a euro-based investor that would not have gained by holding the gold standard but might have compensated the dollar ’s fall through ecb purchases of euro futures . a japanese investor who kept dollar equities or real estate might instead have offset the exchange-rate loss through yen appreciation through yen futures purchases . tips or their equivalent from any other government , provides safety inflation hedges and explicit currency futures can compensate for exchange-rate risk .
new york – the united states is now engaged in drastic steps vis-à-vis china to make provisions for the trade war . europe , too , has become nervous after the yen-dollar exchange rate has risen to above $ 1.40 , well above its purchasing-power-parity ( ppp ) exchange rate of $ 1.17 . but is china really willing to blame for the eruption of a global currency war ? south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and a number of other countries are now buying dollars to defend their own currencies against revaluation and therefore defend their exports . munich because china pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the dollar , any weakening of the dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis also implies weakening the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies .
but , while such sources can provide some valuable insights , they do not meet the standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which an informed public conversation should be based . it is critical that the us is developing an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods to track income and wealth levels . to this end , an especially important milestone will come with revision , due over the next three years , of the un ’s nation-state accounts system . it is essential that the us develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods to capture incomes and wealth . government statistical agencies should publish , on average , the income and wealth levels of the top 1 % , 0.1 % and 0.001 % , together with the effective taxes paid by such groups .
health-care reform , as hillary clinton could tell them , is fearsomely complicated . eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the government just over $ 100 billion annually , about 3 % of the federal spending . but there is a growing recognition that the name is changing ( “ trumpcare , ” ” ” ” anyone ? ) and can be expected by the republican plan covers fewer people ; but much of its substance remains the same . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that substituting obamacare is easier said than done .
during cardoso 's tenure , he had privatized telecoms , a national mining corporation , and a portion of the electric sector . since his campaign began , lula has shown strength , especially after the favored candidate , roseana sarney 's sarney , hit and burned when the federal police and public prosecutor uncovered cash stockpiles inside her husband 's office . as inflation tumbled , so did unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all increased sharply . although social inequalities were heightened , brazil suffered blackouts and electricity rationing last year . mr. andrzej sarney was eventually absolved from all charges , but not soon enough to rescue her candidacy .
in case you think that people receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gamble , or prostitution has shown that autonomous evaluation shows that they do n’t . moreover , for $ 450 million , you could buy 180 million bed nets , enough to protect more than 271 million people from malaria alone . ( for all of these interventions , the numbers are likely to be slightly smaller , because a charity ’s impact calculator is not intended for such huge sums ; and so does not take into account that costs will rise once those easiest to reach have met . ) as a person chooses to purchase “ salvator maine , ” rather than restore sight to nine million people , what does that say about their values ? giving a direct monetary transfer raises recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets .
to begin , you can simply set your price in , say , $ 1 , coupled with a list of people that can reach you for free . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as less mail gets dispatched , a higher proportion will be sought and tested . mail managers will also handle incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests that are specified by the recipient will collect credit card information by senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts , or navigate other payments systems as they emerge ) . the recipient is unlikely to see the complexities change ; much of that will be handled ex ante . there will be many glitches up to a beginning , beginning with those of whom you know which has multiple email addresses , old friends not on your current white list of free senders , and so on .
in trade and immigration – for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self ) . bannon reinforced the nationalist inclination that led trump to overrule his daughter , ivanka , and his economic advisers , by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon has intruded on foreign policy by getting himself to the us national security council , for a time , until two of trump ’s generals , national security adviser r. mcmaster , and john kelly ( now chief of staff ) got him removed . it was a mistake to view bannon like pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , like some had done , as trump ’s white house police officer . ( bannon was believed to be behind trump ’s recent push to amass mcmaster , mostly by indicating to be “ anti-israel . ” )
so the creditor countries , led by germany , pressed for the minimum that needed to keep the euro alive , whereas the debtors grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . in the meantime , demand in much of europe is weak , ruling out the much-needed economic growth needed to pay off debts , and offer hope to the eu ’s 25 million unemployed . they mistrust one another , all too much to collaborate . parochial suspicion has been a key obstacle to a grand solution . no country ’s taxpayers really want to feel that it is paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency has not imposed its own responsibility .
a cheap credit ushered in by the euro fed an inflationary economic bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . credit terms deteriorated sharply and what remained is the over-overpriced rump of economies that became excessively dependent on foreign financing . the french economy , in turn , suffers because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . according to a study by goldman sachs , france would still have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average and by roughly 35 % vis-à-vis germany to restore wage sustainability . the ecb and the international community in particular – the international monetary fund – tried to deal with the crisis by rewarding a dearth of private capital with public credit .
if i want to know whether it was possible that napoleon had met kant , i pick volumes k and n , and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 ; and that kant was born in 1724 , and died in 1804 . the same happens even when you read philosophy by , say , husserl . of course encyclopedias is never supposed to be reading cover . were the author opened at a fist page , then it follows a host of questions , in which one gets a glimpse of the way it reaches his conclusions . perhaps , do the two of those met .
getting them to produce a better team would no longer be our team . but our emotions are those algorithms bequeathed by evolution , by which we make most decisions , including politics itself ; economic cost-benefit analysis , which does not connect to our emotional compass , does not move a needle . what does it take for an eu member , nigeria , iraq , turkey , ukraine , yemen , or any other political entity ? from one perspective , this is just another instance of emotion defeating economic logic . at its core is the sense of “ us . ”
a careful study by the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states nonetheless shows that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . in this way , islam and democracy are commonly presumed to be bitter antagonists . this conclusion stems from comparing muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam , which looks at loggerheads with democracy . when a government sprang out of a reasonably fair election , and an elected government is free to fill its most egregious political offices , the country views itself as “ electorally competitive . ”
understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because venter ’s recognizing that the right paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects the potential application and diffusion of the technology . on the other side , the swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger rightly noted that venter ’s achievement “ is a technical advance , not a conceptual one . ” other scientists have noted that the organism is really just “ semi-synthetic , ” ” ” because that synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) has been introduced into a normal , no-synthetic , bacterium . thirty-five years ago , the american national health institutes adopted overly risk-averse research guidelines , using recombinant dna or , “ genetic engineering , ” techniques . ( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . )
paris – with weak demand in the advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging-market economies , including among the major players in asia and latin america , many argue that an era of productivity-convergence has entered the beginning of the end . almost nothing could be further from the truth , and much worse still is the truth . the pace of convergence has accelerated further during and after , say , the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : the aggregate average differential in per capita income growth jumped to over four percentage points from the 1980s to 2012 , from slightly more than two percentage points a decade earlier . as i argued before , convergence among emerging countries ’ real median incomes was likely to continue in the aggregate , with advanced countries ’ ’ incomes likely to continue in 2020 . that process began in the late 1980 ’s and continued unabated , with the possible exception , in the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 .
labour has sought to avoid a full-scale constitutional debate , on the grounds that any move toward federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . this belief has the advantage of both major political parties , as well as their objective of protecting the two major political parties . it is unfair to cede more power to the scottish parliament , while continuing to give labour , which controls 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , on disproportionate say over what is happening in england . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its faith in the union of the country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any debate about how to make the union modernized can mean . if we are to avoid rattling the uk into disarray , it will need to change how we govern ourselves .
that means reaching out to public figures seeking on-the-record correction , lodging complaints with norms , and providing training to media organizations . it also means working with tech companies to identify ways to prevent the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international borders . and we should work with schools and other education platforms to help teach people to identify false or misleading claims . this is the approach taken by us organizations , and as poorly and under-resourced as they are , the impact is already becoming apparent . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should focus not simply on tackling false information , but also on identifying the sources of reliable information , showing that their readers and followers can not .
london – one of the most dispassionate features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by a world of 23,000 nuclear weapons , and by those building more of them , or simply being too willing to exploit them , has consigned to the margins of policy itself . yet the nuclear issue still has been fighting for the issue of public resonance and political traction . it would take a courageous gambler to bet on ratification of the american senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty ( ctbt ) any time soon . american president barack obama seized global attention with his prague address in 2009 to make a compelling case for a nuclear weapon-free world . and he deliver on a major new treaty of arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion .
so the report concludes that a $ 3.6 trillion investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed by 2020 to boost the quality of american infrastructure by addressing the “ sizeable backlog of overdue maintenance [ and ] pressing need for modernization . ” the report cited numerous state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and its “ 44.5 billion dollars required to upgrade drinking-water systems in california . ” a 2013 report by the american society of civil engineers gave america the pathetic total grade of d +for its infrastructure . it seems self-evident that a sophisticated developed economy requires adequate , ongoing investment in public-goods provision . but the state of american infrastructure indicates that many decision-makers do not share this view .
global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products essentially resemble other global commodities markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that pharmaceuticals bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but that it is a mistake to see prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . in reality , prohibition represents an abdication of state law . clearly , whatever is being suppressed is effectively unregulated , except by criminal organizations . a second myth presumes that prohibition reduces drug harm .
as it stands , we have “ fished down ” our stocks until few large , old individuals remain . this is for the best of reasons – fish that are caught when too little will produce little yield . moreover , a fish will have no chance of reproduce , undermining the amount of fish that is raised altogether . for example , a avowed intent of the eu ’s common policy of fisheries is “ to protect fish resources by regulating the amount of marine fish , by allowing the young fish to reproduce , and by giving it that measures are honored . ” this is for the best of reasons – fish that are caught while too small will produce small returns .
indeed , official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and typically 86 % – support him on everything , from annexation of crimea to his latest term as president . yet putin ’s ambition as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ achilles ’ heel . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration for the real thing . the truth about what people genuinely feel remains impossible to tell . with the russian economy stagnating , owing in large part to international sanctions and the kremlin counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer .
but it was probably in hungary that the first country to seek an imf package , that the practices were most widespread . yet this vulnerability was created in large part , or , at least , accommodated by western banks . funding from parent banks , which in the earlier stages of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to eastern europe ’s banking systems , now appears more like a liability – and potentially dangerous – source of contagion . it was also western european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home ” rule , meant to discourage such excesses . greece also effectively stripped the countries of central and eastern europe of its monetary-policy instruments , leaving them with little control over extremely fast credit growth .
what is missing is a deeper assessment of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . add to that failed mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , stir up in a large and growing cohort of unemployed and digitally-connected youth , and the continent offers ideal conditions for mayhem . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments have responded with violent extremism mainly by inserting “ hard ” safety first . but this strategy failed to reduce extremist groups through potency , or limit their reach . in fact , there is mounting evidence that an exclusively military response can be a drain on resources , or do more harm than good .
moreover , wherever the health-care costs imposed by everyone , including the us , with its public-health-care schemes for the poor and elderly , everyone pays the costs of cigarette management efforts . the tobacco industry will now take its battle against australia in a legislation led by the world trade organization ( wto ) . the industry worries that the law could be copied in much larger markets like india and china . furthermore , it seems odd to hold that the state may , in principle , prohibit sale of a product , but may not permits it to be only “ sold ” in packs that carry graphic images of the harm it inflicts on human health . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly generate a new source of revenue for organized crime .
during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , having invested in hurricane shelters and evacuation networks , suffered far fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which was ill-prepared , up 2,000 lives have now been lost . according to a recent rand study , the united nations disaster funding for loss-reduction research in 2003 amounted to roughly $ 127 million – just 7 % of the $ 1.1 billion invested for climate-change research for that year . the united nations framework office refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how the disasters they were fearing were linked to climate change . after all , climate change policies are not the best way to minimize the effects of weather-related catastrophes .
new york – the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement has been to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions goal into formal g-20 support of “ strong and effective action to address climate change . ” ( all of this distressing australia ’s conservative host government that struggled to avoid the issue so far from raising it ; the australian public , nonetheless , was delighted , and promptly brought down prime minister tony abbott of its approval ratings in post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments . the g20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge for the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . other formal outcomes of the g-20 meeting amounted to agreements , backed by more policy detail , than most commentators had anticipated , to stimulate global growth . specifically , incoming leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to bring more women to the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and on how to target corruption .
if you want to impress upon russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial stern is certain to prove effective . but reveling in a country ’s monarchical history can be dangerous . can macron learn from his errors and regain confidence among french voters who feel humiliated by him ? many of those who voted for macron may have hoped for an extended twenty-first-century bonaparte . but now , one might think more of one of louis xvi , a king who paid with his life to his predecessors ’ faults .
for many , the global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point when america ’s economy turned the corner . and it was doing so , culminating in one of history ’s most successful periods of global policy coordination , involving both advanced and emerging economies . the change was so notable that many us policymakers fell into projecting a quick rebound , especially in view of america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only humbled by what proved protracted and complex to pursue a major us recovery process . as they have intervened , american policymakers have consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and it is precisely what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on the part of america ’s federal reserve .
the 2008 recession was supposed to be the trigger of the collapse of the us real-estate bubble . housing wealth in america has fallen by more than 34 % since its peak in 2006 , and remains down by almost a third . the stock market has fallen by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down by almost a third . this enormous loss of wealth has caused a huge and steady drop in consumer demand , leading to a rise in unemployment . fear feeds it together , and the probability that stocks will lose value becomes self-fulfilling .
this is why the center for international media assistance has only released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon and calling for solutions . free and healthy news media have been vital to a well-functioning democracy . as the media landscape has increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . if we are to protect the latter , we must defend the former at all costs . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , failed to buy a las vegas review-journal campaign in 2015 , or to marry israeli media for money .
so far , it has had to deal with poor or non-existent opposition forces . that will change very fast , particularly in view of nato ’s troop increases in afghanistan . from now on , it will take for a trait she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making skills . moreover , the victory of a black and yellowish state has defined the alternative : red and dark red and greens . the political camps of the old – the left and the right – are back .
instead , we need to integrate the transportation , housing , and land use , encourage reliance on public transport , and make our streets convenient and safe to walk ( especially for women and those with disabilities ) . our fourth challenge is to change how we produce , transport , and consume energy . this involves creating more efficient energy systems , and increasing our investments in renewables ( which will , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . we can also encourage households to consume less energy , driving companies to reduce the amount of energy that they waste . fifth , we need to reform how we manage water and water infrastructure to once that precious resource can be once and for a city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s government certainly has reason to celebrate . he surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office after its right-wing likud party gained five-seat advantage in the knesset ( parliament ) over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . but the celebration is likely to be short-lived . the way netanyahu finagled that outcome – renouncing its commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to continue building settlements on occupied land – will almost surely have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel . netanyahu ’s hardline stance in recent years has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling the palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
of course , i am hopeful that the new deal will last , at long last , bringing the peace process to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the deal lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as russia ’s automatic eviction from the swift financial transfer system should it renege on every aspect of the deal . simply put , trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should have been whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female fighter pilot . savchenko spent more than two months on a hunger strike in russia to protest her patently illegal extortion on charges even more ludicrous than those for which i was imprisoned .
thanks to research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard , and anonymized data donation from a center for international development to harvard university is starting to shed some light on this mystique . in ongoing work with dany bahar , michele coscia , and frank newneffke , we were able to establish some interesting stylized fact . more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel in both directions , but margins are less unequal relative to their populations : a country with 100 % larger populations than another has just about 70 % more business travel . why waste precious workouts in thin air , security checks , and await us luggage ? before any of those people starts collecting budgets on travel , let ’s try to understand why we need people to move , rather than information .
in confronting trump , there can be no discount , either . the price of liberty , americans are fond of saying , is eternal vigilance . far too many italians have shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s deceit lies and failures , figuring that he would soon go away , doing little harm . yet it has not gone away , and there has been ample harm . the truth is that america can not afford to go around the same error , one that is required .
beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” to his country ’s development , an image that some government members have sought to cultivate – a law jeopardizes peru ’s ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . and , while the government recognizes the need for a growth-enhancing reform movement , its approach is all the wrong . in fact , the peruvian government now has a serious problem . specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approvals for a set of “ realistic ” practices that would reduce the red tape perceived to hampering investment in extractive industries – very industries that the economy should become less reliant . the new law severely weakens peru ’s ’s ability to regulate land use , establish environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental assessments .
fifa and the government ’s reaction to brazil ’s recent protests underscore the risk of what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of liberty and democracy . the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , which has been herself imprisoned and tortured in the hands of a military regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake . when pundits weigh up on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity . but they seldom appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , the relative newness of hard-won freedoms , and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether homegrown dictatorship or colonial rule , means individual liberty . ( still less accurately , they note the role that women ’s empowerment and feminism played in development . )
in fact , nato is no more than a military alliance ; it can do too little . how , then , can nato help this way ? for the eu , it now has a state-political alliance that sets democratic standards for new members and aspirants . no more than a military alliance , nato is no more than a potential threat to the us . no romanian government can neglect those standards , either .
one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s own repressive practices . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition leader juan guaidó as the interim head of state after guaidó , with widespread support among the venezuelans , he has invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of corrupt tycoons – effectively a “ mafia state ” that has bought the us military ’s loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trade deals . to be sure , the mafia ’s opponents are being repressed , often brutally so . to be sure , political prisoners have joined maduro ’s ranks , brazil , and turkey .
but , so far , efforts to lower funding costs have had a limited impact . if it loosens monetary policy further , say , curbing banks ’ excess-reserve requirements ratio , the momentum toward restructuring could fade ; with no guarantee that additional liquidity will flow into the real sector . indeed , the weighted mean real interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial firms remains closer to about 7 % , with economic growth having edged back from 7.4 % annually on a year scale large in the last three months to 7.3 % , in the current quarter . the pboc now faces a dilemma . the situation may not be dire yet , but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are undertaking structural reform .
drafted with un resolution 181 reference ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such an motion would ratify the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people based on 1967 borders with mutually agreed border and security arrangements . at the same time , such a vote would deal with international calls for bilateral diplomacy to address . while such an approach would certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . instead of closing down such a redefining the statehood bid upon the un would give the palestinian leadership a much-needed symbolic accomplishment , including the framework from which to restart negotiations , longstanding palestinian demand . it would also address , indirectly , the israeli government ’s demand that palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ”
robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , particularly with respect to privacy and safety . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue than on taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others operating in fields such as robotics . given that ongoing changes to product delivery have already kick-started this trend , gates and some in europe have suggested that robots are being taxed to pay for human services . whether this is the best response is a topic of much debate nowadays ; but it will obviously require some sort of compromise .
as a result , “ everything changes . ” everything . so , goes the refrain in the famous argentine song . but in fact , in argentina it is doing all that stays the same , or becomes worse . heraclitus ’s warning against ba’thing in the same sea twice ends up being lost on us economic ministers insisting on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . whenever they go bathing out , they follow the same path , first raising fears over what happens when argentina will pay back its foreign debts and then pay off its debt under heavy pressure from the international monetary fund and the us .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes more fragmented , powerful global-governance institutions are critical to address the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . we have seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers , and refugees , migration , ebola , and an emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . and yet rarely have our existing institutions , including , united nations agencies , been frailer . while the un still has many strengths , it , too , has clear structural weaknesses . the un is not broke , but its problems , especially as more countries treat it as a polite , diplomatic afterthought , and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere .
in ninety days , these organizers turned over to more than 5 million protestors worldwide . there are three key keys to this phenomenon : first , the internet has allowed for the rapid dissemination of organizational blueprints at extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . the decision to launch february 15 , as a day of mass protest , was apparently taken at a meeting of european welfare forum activists in florence in november on the paris climate agreement last year . mass action depended on local organizations seizing an initiative based on loose global planning . the internet enabled the rapid dissemination of organizational planning at a extraordinarily low cost to the organizers .
how better to memorize that decision than it does with a building boom in a jail boom ? one new facility to which money is devoted will house 106 inmates ( an accurate number are shaky ) , who have been neither attempted nor charged . according to the congressional oversight spokesman for the south command that oversees gitmo , starving strikers are disillusioned , because they believed obama whatever his pledge to close gitmo . indeed , they are being cleared to leave , and this is nothing less than obama ’s own failure to fulfill his promises , and the failure of america ’s congress to legislate transfers , that keep them there . eight prisoners are now entering the second month of a hunger crash .
for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that strengthen dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries might ensure that the gains from increased chinese ( and other ) trade are shared broadly . it is important to note that these choices are not only china ’s per person ; the world also has the decisions to make . technology and innovation flows : increased technology ( and insights ) flows between china and the rest of the world would spur growth in globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; and tremendous flows would undermine global productivity . likewise , the world can determine how to ease more or fewer technology-related flows , which are increasingly subject to safety reviews . our simulacrum count estimates that $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on the extent that technology flows unleash innovations and drive productivity growth .
it is hard to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , economic fallout will amounted to even a quarter that is off . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in 2007 , technical considerations make exiting the eurozone difficult , expensive , and dangerous . exploiting iceland as our measurement stick , the costs for greece not exiting the eurozone are equivalent to 75 % of its year ’s gdp – and counting . but this is just one side of the ledger , worth some of the word . whereas greece remains mired in a depression , iceland ’s , not inside the eurozone , has essentially recovered .
there is just one way for maliki to explain america ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure on iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage iraq during his first term . the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , has been unable to secure a second term , seven months after the election attests to his widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraqis ’ political class . in this , obama is following the example set by president george w. bush , who allows an american electoral agenda – rather than america ’s – to refer to iraqi national interests , the dictate of iraqi policy . last march , as rumors circulated that he was losing the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be endangered if he vanished , noting his responsibility to maintain order . having lost , he demanded a recalculation , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as commander-in-chief .
people begin to behave as though the books have been balanced , ignoring it . in fact , i do not believe osborne himself ever attached importance to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . in its emphasis on the importance of a signal , economics enters into a postmodernist territory . the signal – in this case , the promise to balance the books – creates reality . when one believes a narrative , one behaves in ways that make it happen .
for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains . this is a demanding moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity . our focus is now on completing clinical trials to two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . in response to its dwindling donor funds , the ghanaian government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch ghana ’s malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent funding gaps but ultimately will help to lead sustainable , domestic efforts to eradicate malaria from the country .
there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon ’s example in this regard . if sunnis came to believe that the shia and kurds ’ intend to treat them like second-class citizens , they would have little stake in maliki ’s government ’s success and could again start pursuing their own political interests by other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . otherwise , the country ’s diverse interest groups might , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , be turning to outsiders for once to negotiate solutions to their problems . indeed , worse still , a factional conflict would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating under the shadow of a major shia-dominated militant organization .
the u.s. had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 , a multilateral problem , stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” alas , that plot is on the side of a thicken . trumponomics seems likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall for years . that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should let off the hook for unfair practices . but it does mean limited hope to address seemingly chronic trade deficits , as well as the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to those imbalances , unless america begins to save again . that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should let off the hook for unfair practices .
their tactic has been to block a clear review of the iraqi catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting america ’s occupation of iraq . for example , fahd al-fanek al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , now is a columnist for the jordanian newspapers al-ra ” i. but this is not true enough . all over the arab world , baghdad ’s fall on april 9th is viewed with a day of shame , reminiscent of june 30 , when israel was defeated by armies of three arab countries in conquest of the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in a mere six days . arab intellectuals and , indeed , the broader arab public are now busy trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraqi earthquake . meanwhile , supporters of former ba’athist regimes in iraq and elsewhere are now busy defending the same old , totalitarian thinking .
and , whereas the recovery in advanced economies boosted exports , a persistent overcapacity , combined with slower growth in household-consumption than in 2012 , has driven investment growth , albeit still rapid , to decline to its lowest level over the last 11 years . in principle , a country can run its current-account deficit or surplus indefinitely . meanwhile , a lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) might be the result of its increased investment-based deficit . but it is more problematic when china ’s chronic surpluses are china ’s problem . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries in terms of per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies a gross resource misallocation .
madrid – by july 29 , as part of the sustainability organization global footprint network , mankind will power up to that entire year ’s resource budget . this “ earth overshoot day , ” as seems likely , has moved forward by an astonishing two months for the past 20 years , and , in 2019 , it will arrive earlier than ever before . though humanity ’s growing environmental impact manifests itself in a number of ways , the consequences of climate change have broadest and longest-lasting effects . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . carbon dioxide emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint .
few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . meanwhile , the communist government managed to remain in power , after tiananmen square not only through brute force . a sort of political legitimacy , especially among an educated middle class , was purchased with the promise of increased wealth . the economic boom is the only source of the legitimacy left by the one-party state . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression amply demonstrated throughout the regions of china in the fall of 1989 .
but , in the face of pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . urbanization can leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue in large emerging-market countries . globally , the world ’s 20 largest cities , with 75 % of them in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new units of housing by 2025 . even in a advanced economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at a market rate . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing , or struggling financially , owing to charges of housing ; that number projected a growth to reach 440 million by 2025 .
berkeley – one need not be particularly good at hearing to decipher the whistles being practiced in the united states during this year ’s election campaign . all of this fear mongering is scarier than the usual , election-year fare . and it is frightening for the americans , who , until recently , believe – or perhaps hope – that they live in a republic based on tradition set up by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt . listen even briefly , and you understand that mexicans and the chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that are robbing american workers of their rightful jobs , and that muslims are eager to blow up everyone up . the people of foreign countries that can conclude are frightening to the conclusion that voters in the world ’s sole superpower have become dangerously non-aligned .
italy ’s recent budget , neither confronted by pension issues nor issuing fiscal reform , demonstrates this fully . professor nicola rossi , an economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the desire that we give “ less to the fathers and more to various sons . ” here is the grand delusion of a budget and the finance ministry in italy . put in such terms , a problem has always been solved by giving more weight to those with the most political power . but when the unions are powerful , or seniors are in majority size ( in italy ’s two coincide because the seniors are the majority in all labor unions ) , exact the opposite happens .
oslo – education is the human right , and the right , and society must always be created . and , like other human rights , it can not be taken for granted . around the world , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school each year . more than 120 million children are failing to complete primary education , and health care requires health care , education . behind these figures that there are chileans and the youth are being denied not just the right but the opportunities : the equitable chance of getting a decent job , fleeing poverty , supporting their families , and developing their communities .
small-scale farmers , from both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . moreover , less than 5 % of agricultural land is irrigated , improving crop varieties rarely capture . and african farmers ’ gdp growth is more than twice the rate of poverty reduction as effective as growth in other sectors . on average , they are using fewer than ten kilograms of fertilizer per hectare , compared to just 140 kilograms in india . but african farmers are facing significant barriers to meeting their potential .
are the risks large enough to justify suffering that could have been avoided ? the question , then , is whether the decision-makers are prepared to use them . but why do developing-country governments dragging their feet on ? obviously , most eu countries ’ governments are n’t . gm foods have been on the market in the us for more than 12 years .
of the roughly $ 200 trillion held by global financial assets today , nearly three-quarters are in some types of debt instruments , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and government securities . the derivatives market surely helps spread risk more broadly than this superficial calculation implies , but a fundamental point stands . surely , there are some good economic reasons why homebuyers have such an insatiable appetite for government debt . imperfect information and monitoring difficulties present significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . yet policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role .
for starters , italy ’s ’s ’s interests may not align with those of china . italian exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) annually , with imports totaling roughly € 29 billion . furthermore , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy has sorely needs , given its banks ’ constrained lending . whereas italy received some € 14 billion in investment from chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms invested € 10.5 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 , and have signed bri contracts worth more than $ 80 billion . nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons not to continue along this bilateral bri route with china , but rather to deepen engagement with it as a component of the eu ’s 2016 economic strategy concerning china .
to be sure , many latin american leaders in recent decades have risen to power on promises of leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have had to deliver some short-term benefits , especially to the poor . but such measures have often been marred by populism , and ultimately have done more harm than good . after years of economic stagnation and even crises , public patience has wearing thin . relying on commodity revenues to fund their welfare programs , those leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve economic fundamentals .
his eloquent senate resignation letter made it clear that he opposed not only the syrian blunder , but rather a pattern of behavior : trump ’s ’s confusion of allies and opponents ; his willingness to abandon friends , like the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , like nato . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . members of congress have expressed outright fears about the trump presidency beyond any guardrails . even that the doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , released a statement on a thursday afternoon for being “ agdistressed ” by mattis ’s passing ( a marked sign , many believe , by mcconnell , that trump is ’s private worried about trump ’s repercussions at the republican party . mattis ’s cronies explained in tv interviews that what most of the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not only that he was able to affect us policy no longer , but that his remaining in the cabinet reflected trump as affirmation , a position he could no longer hold .
visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with an unintended side effect of harming international business in china . but a ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s priority is not only to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to foster growth while protecting its monopoly . the regime is set on proving to the world that , while china , once a global power , can stage spectacular performance , its voice will endure . the government has strengthened its security system , putting in place a ubiquitous screening system .
he will need to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or an internationalist right-leaning one . he will need to become a internationalist left-leaning leader , or an internationalist right-leaning one . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strong internationalist supply-side response . at a time of continuous economic disruptions , this will become all the more important . if one ’s globalization , in its various dimensions , is to be backed by popular majorities , then it will have to be accompanied by a modernized social-welfare policies that provide effective aid to those in need .
but there is an alternative that could help to appease an angry citizenry and mitigate the revenue losses from the outright prohibition of smoking : electronic cigarettes . in fact , given that e-cigarettes simply heat a nicotine solution to manufacture an inhalable vapor solution , freeing none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoke should make them the ideal nicotine-delivery system for trying – or self-enforcement – to rein in their tobacco intake . as yanzhong huang of the foreign relations council recently pointed out , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population has turned to e-cigarettes , that would imply the market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ” aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product , invented in china in 2003 . but , despite remarkable progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – as early as 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 facilities , as much as 200 % of global e-cigarette production – the traditional cigarette users still dominate the chinese market .
the reason the un ’s climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas , centered on voluntary , quantitative objectives , are fundamentally flawed . agreeing on quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is easy . but countries are automatically upholding adherence to those targets as a sacrifice : in attempting to cut emissions by x tons , we would lose y million jobs , with gdp falling by $ z trillion . in the absence of any actual sanctions or punishment for noncompliance , when pressured , governments can simply change their thinking . even when a government does try to uphold its commitments in , say , by imposing new regulation on higher-emitting industries , it may fail to obtain the desired outcomes .
apple can not build its iphone from scratch in the us , so it would need to seek alternative suppliers , raise its own production costs considerably . this would give chinese smartphone enterprises an opportunity to seize market share from major players . for its part , today , some 80 % of global commerce comprises international supply chains at the same time . falling trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their manufacturing lines geographically , with goods processed and value added within multiple countries . whereas china provides just 4 % of the value added , it is supplying core components to apple at low prices .
finally , firms with a higher-ceo pay slice are more likely to provide their ceo with option grants that turn out to be opportunistically timed . the financial economists view such luck-based compensation as an expression of governance problems . third , a higher-ceo pay slice is linked to weaker accountability to poor performance . the lower the performance-turnover sensitivity to performance reflects a less willingness on the boards to discipline the ceo . in firms with a high-ceo pay slice , the probability of a ceo turnover following bad performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s duration ) is lower .
indeed , any weighty occurrence of provokes repercussions across the continent . in fact , there is only one europe , despite its diversity . if europe becomes one , as long as it is , if the european union is to take in , say , the new postcommunist democracies – which are in everyone ’s interest – a number of vital tasks must go on , within the new democracies of the new democracies , as well as in the communities of europe and the atlantic . to begin with , europe must foster communities in postcommunist countries by restoring civil society . for a living society , it can not be restructured from above .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will merely prolong the conflict . the sooner the western convinces russia ’s leaders that it will not return to the conflict , the sooner the conflict will end . the eu and the us must remain steadfast and united in their policies toward russia . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia will need to earn back on the confidence that it has broken , demonstrating its determination to uphold the treaties and international norms of behavior on which it agreed . this approach offers the best chance to bring an end to the current confrontation and to compelling russians to engage constructively with the west .
today , greece ’s european creditors appear ready to abandon their own solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist that collecting some of the crumbs out of a country ’s pensioners . should they press their demands , force greece to exit ; the world will never again believe europe ’s longevity on this basis . nine times away from ten , nothing truly serious happens – mere distress for individuals or groups . but the us runs the tenth time risk . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will succumb to greater market pressures .
to many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . yet , on closer inspection , things are not that simple . it is certainly not preferable for a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or a gerontocracy , in which age leads one at the top , or even an aristocracy in which what counts is inherited titles and characteristics . hence , a meritocracy seems preferable , at least at first glance . a majority of those in the top reaches not only the civil service and the judiciary , but also the politics , business , and academia are using what graduates of the renowned grandes écoles .
at america ’s most elite universities , for example , only about 9 % of us students originate in the bottom half of the us population , whereas 74 % come from the top quarter . most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people live up to their potential . some countries have even imposed a constitutional mandate to provide equality of educational opportunity . but , in america , more are being spent on educating wealthy students than on educating the working poor . as a result , america is wasting some of its most precious assets , with some young men bereft of ability to turn to dysfunctional activities .
even if sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability remains far from guaranteed . the au now has threatened sudan ’s new rulers , with their suspension from the group unless they transfer power to civilian authority . for a decade , le pouvoir has used oil revenues to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but those reserves concentrated in the south , and thus collapsed when south sudan seceded in 2011 . and now , thanks to political stability , political stability is vanishing .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is daunting , particularly given constraints on key resources such as water and farmland . academic studies have found that the locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses that use the artificial light to expand their crops – can provide significant savings , which could then be passed on to consumers . but questions about such farms , especially the commodity crop , have persisted . now a third solution is emerging : vertical farming states . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supply are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals .
our retirement systems and our national budgets need to be based on a “ generational accounting ” that assures that economic risk are widespread systematically over generations . still , we need to confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . what that really means is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to reflect better views about the changing circumstances facing different generations rather than making fixed promises -- which is most likely not to be holding , anyway , anyway -- by some payrolls in the future . pensioners are amongst the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue . what it does mean to do that , what the problem is a political one .
this can only worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem , and weaken its already meager growth prospects . lower financing costs for sovereign debt appear to be a net gain for society , because the government then saves on debt service , and can keep taxes down to lower . but any gains from lowering taxes more than offset private-sector losses , which , facing higher financing costs , will invest fewer in less , slowing economic growth – and thus shrinking government revenue . this can only exacerbate europe ’s problems , and weaken its already meager growth prospects . a variety of steps in recent years have been taken to strengthen banking regulation .
the plo has succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . the only obstacle still to palestinian leaders is american . instead , americans have their own vision of how to achieve a breakthrough , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is now the major obstacle . when the palestinians asked the mitchell day for reassuring america ’s declaration of such statehood if talks have failed , mitchell has responded that such a commitment would make negotiations as pointless . to affect a change in israel , the americans are introducing various trial balloons .
these old tensions assumed new dimensions as human tissue ’s commercial potential catch up to the entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws address these uses in the context of cell , tissues and genes . the most well known case concerning the body as assets is what john moore once was a patient developing a hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at a ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician had patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent ; set down contracts , and sold the rights to a swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from a “ mo ” cell line at a hospital . the commercial calculus behind that business sometimes caused riots until anatomy laws permitted actors of executed by executed murderers and unclaimed dead use , thereby reassuring the middle and upper class individuals that their bodies were not engaged .
a black , red and gold german tricolor adorns entire countries like never before ; but almost nowhere are there nationalist undertones . in fact , the flags of a number of nations fly alongside germany . in berlin , as in other large german cities , taxis sport the flags of their drivers ’ home countries – from angola to saudi arabia – . but germans , undawed by it all , simply keep celebrating one great soccer league party with their newfound friends from around the world . supporters don not only their nations ’ flags , but also fanciful costumes evocative of their home countries ’ colors .
to prevent the ebola outbreak from escalating further , the relevant actors – from health care workers to government officials – must re-engage the affected communities in order to win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda proved , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in space for just 100 days . the epidemic ’s ’s ’s death toll , meanwhile , has been on the rise . thisharrowing experience left behind wrecked property , failed state , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage was under less than 30 % .
at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with representatives from business and civil society – will have a critical opportunity to act on that recognition . corruption , on the other hand , is decried across cultures and throughout history as well . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with representatives from business and civil society – will have a critical opportunity to craft this recognition . when , say , ngos are rampant or royalty to natural resources are stolen at the source , or the private sector is monopolized by narrow networks of corporate cronies , populations have become unable to realize their potential . they have existed as long as the government has ; but , like more crimes , it has become increasingly sophisticated over the past few decades , with the devastating effects on the well-being and dignity of countless innocent residents .
protests began when the government attempted to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’s brother , yingluck ’s brother , and ptp ’s founder , who was overthrown by the military in 2006 , following charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it also would have superseded the assassination charges brought against thailand ’s democratic party chief , former prime minister , abhisit vejjajiva , as well . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to roll back amnesty on amnesty measures failed to make up the opposition . in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled by new grievances . yingluck ’s government refused to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a request to amend the senate from a semi-named to a full-fledged chamber .
now , eu member states are more divided than ever , even on the most fundamental questions concerning the european project . a resurgent populist nationalism has been replaced by the broad pro-european consensus of the past . new presidents of the european commission , the council of europe , and the european central bank will be nominated , together with a new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , will elect . if nationalist euroskeptic parties became the largest group in the european parliament , such appointments could represent an abrupt break from the past . moreover , the east is increasingly maneuvering between the west and the north toward the south .
the recent ebola epidemic in west africa has highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more effective , and more resilient health-care systems across the developing world . but , while rushing to construct more clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage , that does not turn out to be true . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my home sierra leone region , i have seen more than a few health facilities that communities could afford without . freetown , sierra leone ( one ) – donors like the world bank and the world health organization – often urge developing countries to invest in their national health systems . but when countries are rush to build more clinics , resulting facilities usually are hastily constructed and lacking in the facilities , supply , and staff needed to deliver the vital health services they need to do so effectively .
to be sure , had wilson been alive today , he might have agreed with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would have been very different . wilson , for example , would most likely concur with trump that the level of openness to global markets today is actually excessive . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a western-dominated multilateral process . likewise , he would most likely advocate a kind of fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the richest us corporations and households financing in , say , infrastructure development , quality education , and universal health coverage . it is problematic indeed that america ’s banks and businesses can export capital , technology , and jobs like they please , with little or no regard for domestic cost .
when i announced englishnization , just 10 % of our labor was proficient in english . the objective was to lay the groundwork for a global expansion in an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talents . unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , especially those outside a firm , thought i was somewhat mad . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are focusing our advice on how to build a global brand headquartered in japan ’s capital . but in march 2010 , in a move i trust i was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” refit a plan that personalized our corporate language in less than two years .
but this would only weaken the banks ’ credit portfolios further at a time when european regulators are desperate to step up them . europe , for its part , ’s second vicious spiral is driving the shift from fiscal consolidation toward slowing growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . the ecb ’s decision in march to providing banks with unlimited liquidity will do nothing to address governments ’ debt problems , or even to its intent . but it at least impedes the sovereign-debt problem from creating banking problems , which in turn worsen the no-end debt problem . tax hikes and public spending cuts do still remain necessary ; avoiding this reality can be avoided .
so american sights turn elsewhere : to china , with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % per year , year out and to india , with its 1.1 trillion people and 6 % annual growth rate . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , technicians , and medical professionals . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policymaking contribute to developing 60 % of the world ’s new drugs , compared to more than 40 % a decade ago . this sterility and inertia makes europeans less and less interesting . add to that the economics of this prescription a decade and a half to the us .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , over a quarter-million people perished in just 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes , on which they rely on traditional warning systems , have suffered unknown casualties . with their reverence for – and a sense of – nature , such groups serve as global environmental sentinels , safeguarding around 80 % of global diversity , and play a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have pitted directly against inchoate miners , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hunters , and other interlopers . these tribes might be isolated ; but , while their disappearance will have serious consequences , they do not . but they will likely die considerably more quickly if we contact suddenly to do so , bringing with us modern pathogens against which they do not have antibodies .
it is not , of course , unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty has usurped the soviet union , are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making , and have a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries . i saw firsthand the eagerness and hope of their peoples at that momentous periods . this is why their position is so difficult today . in my former professional roles , i have witnessed , as few others have done , through the entry of poland and hungary , into the institutions of the euro-atlantic system . but to dismiss the eu from the uncertainty that arises from globalization .
it is humankind ’s product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the prosperity of all . yet , what , exactly , does it mean ? neither a single country , nor a group , has created the law of international maritime institutions , as it now exists . today , many of the benefits to mankind depend on the sea from the pacific to the indian oceans remaining fully open . as long as we distill that spirit is infused into international law over ages , and reformulate it as three principles , the offshore rule of law will become a matter of commonsense thinking .
sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its potential purpose can help to predict and avoid being exploited . effective solutions , of course , must consider the local context . for example , armed groups that use force as recruiting tools are far more likely to resort to egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . moreover , those people living in the shadows of armed groups with genocidal ends have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence – such as enforced pregnancies . when perpetrators of sexual violence launch into high-profile settings like the un , finding it becomes harder that individual states ignore activists ’ demands .
ten years ago , with the maastricht treaty in place , the eu 's members agreed to adhere to the history , culture , and traditions of all of their constituent populations . the draft constitution , which recently failed to win acceptance in the first round of negotiations , not only promises to adhere to a cultural heritage ; obliges the union actively to protect , maintain , and develop europe 's cultural and linguistic divides . but europe can succeed in this task , if its various constituent cultures do not seal itself off from one another . because an enlarged union will become a reality in a mere two months , it is imperative to develop concepts of a cultural understanding that is contributing to the process of successful integrating the new members . certain values , long espoused by the union , should be fairly easy to convey .
this model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital , rather than simply rely on foreign investment . if implemented successfully , this agenda is likely to reverse the global savings and consumption patterns that have underpinned large imbalances in recent years . to be sure , global savings and consumption patterns have undergone significant change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china seeking to re-establish internal balance sheets . china bears responsibility for the saving side , while america disproportionately accounts for its consumption binge , ultimately turned the chinese into america ’s creditor . doubling global household income by 2020 , a destination set at the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november , is likely to be unleashing a 64 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s vast domestic market gradually becoming a new , long-term driver of both domestic and international demand growth .
i do n’t like quotas , either ; they are running counter to my belief in a meritocracy . but , when one considers the obstacles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it looks as if a fairer world must be mandated temporarily . my understanding is that reding ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s reticence is different , and that of her frustrations . after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that , in europe as much as america evading women ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion of women to top positions , no matter how large the effects of soft pressure ” are placed upon them . when women crack through the summit on corporate power – as , for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception to the rule .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india ’s last parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i entered the race without any political “ godfather . ” by contrast , every other candidate in my constituency – indeed , most contenders across the country – devoted their entire lives to politics , many since their student days . not even i was a professional politician in india during the last few decades of my own life , spending my adult life working abroad on the united nations . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to try to inherit ; and i entered a race without any political “ godfather . ”
yet , ultimately , the experiment failed , either . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state is now a “ 50-50 ” society : half of cosmopolitan , half of the communitarian half . in these countries , a government at any given time represents whichever side has won the most recent round in an ongoing culture war . even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . the fdp abandoned talks over frustration that , as its leader , christian lindner put it , “ the four debated partners had no common vision for the country ’s modernization or a common foundation of trust . ”
for starters , every country needs to define the criminal behavior of online child trafficking , and to incorporate it into their national penal codes , alongside tough punishments for violators . along with this , faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers . for their part , parents must build trust bridges to the point that their children feel open to their challenges . raising awareness about the issue is also crucial , particularly in the developing world , where issues like illiteracy , poverty , and age-appropriate sex education can leave children even more vulnerable .
such spaces should become open in the wake of school and weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . these reforms are essential to improving guyana ’s young people ’s life prospects . if more teenagers had access to sex education and contraception , fewer girls would have their life broken through a pregnancy . special attention must be assigned to rural regions , as well as those with special needs , an often-overlooked youth segment of the population . moreover , community communities need increased access to contraception and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revitalize or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where informal-health information can be shared .
this suggests that stronger economic – and hence employment – growth would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent labor . but , whatever the macroeconomic conditions , independent work is likely to account for a rising proportion of employment in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . mckinsey estimates that , by 30-45 % of working-age individuals , 30-45 % of working-age individuals would prefer to earn an income , be primary or secondary , from independent labor . many are low-income workers , who would otherwise have been unemployed . at the same time , while digital platforms for independent work remain early in their evolution , and use a mere 15 % of independent workers , members of the workforce are expanding and expanding rapidly .
in this they were realists , but they did demand for a measure of civic control over organs , both in their political and economic sphere . a demand to stifle censorship was one of the polish march ’s first political slogans . crucially , the protesters did not demand a free elections . one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ” the demand for freedom of assembly and a right to organize it has followed .
new haven – in what might well be a final act of competence , central banks are abdicating effective control of the economies they were assigned to manage . adopting the negative interest rate – initially initiated in europe in 2014 , and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking . first put zero interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) , and now negative nominal interest rates , one futile attempt beget another . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , moving toward negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability , setting the stage for another crisis . previously , the emphasis shifted to boosting aggregate demand , aimed primarily by lowering borrowing costs , but also by discouraging wealth effects from appreciating financial assets .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the permits ’ price fell below $ three euros per ton in april 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market nearly irrelevant . moreover , the eu ’s ’s ’s renewables policies have also proven costly ruinously . this , in turn , has fueled increasing dependence on extremely polluting coal – its worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . that would not happen if the price mechanism continues to underpin climate-change policy .
within the framework of a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits are often balanced by bilateral trade surpluses with other countries . and china may want to buy oil from the middle east , but those in the middle east , with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands , may give a greater interest in gucci handbags than in china ’s less-developed goods . so while china may be running a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with america , these bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . the challenge facing the imf in the near future is that it is formidable . to be sure , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances rather than bilateral imbalances .
asked by gallup how they would rate their life on the scale from zero ( the worst living ) to ten ( the best living ) in 2018 , americans in 2018 responded with 6.9 ’s average , down from 7.0 in 2017 and in 7.3 over the period of 2006-2008 . asked by gallup how they would rate their life on the limit , from zero ( the worst life ) to ten ( the best being there ) , americans in 2018 responded by 6.9 ’s average , down from 7.0 in 2017 , and from 7.3 % in 2006-2008 and 7.3 over the fall of 2008 . asked about their emotions on the last day , most americans ( 55 % ) in 2018 said that they had experienced stress during a number of days ; nearly half ( 45 % ) said that they felt a lot ; and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they felt the anger felt a lot . stress , worry , and anger every hit often-measured america highs in 2018 . those stress measures follow another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness declined , too , in 2018 .
employees need to understand instinctively what can be done , and what should never be done . they need to internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical norms of behavior . to this end , banks should make their values and culture integral to hiring , firing , and promoting decision-making . a written code that emphasizes the commercial advantages of ethical entrepreneurship conduct and the adverse consequences of falling short is part of that effort and can help to preserve and reinforce a culture ; but code alone is not enough . lasting reminders and the repetition are essential .
islamabad – one hundred years ago this month , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote ; today , most women in the developed world enfranchised . this is certainly true in pakistan , where the general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . at first sight , pakistan appears progressive . the law has allowed women to vote since 1956 , almost a decade after independence from british britain . in many developing countries , however , the resistance faced by the british suffragettes rooted in misogyny persists .
the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis aggravated and unemployment rose to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . it should have become apparent that most central banks ’ long models , both formal models and mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking , were badly wrong . none foretold the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , some features of full employment have been restored . they have continued to usher in the use of old discredited models , perhaps mildly modified . in some cases , the result has been unexpected : some lending rates have indeed gone up .
because he did not have a son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to do the job . its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , his mistress , zhang yufeng and jiang qing , and jiang qing , respectively , his latest wife was as inept at governing as kim , but in the aftermath of the disaster of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them in the army and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then ranging from marxism to capitalism , made it pleased to china ’s citizens . they , and the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) was soon ousted . but mao ’s death at least brought an end to the era of caesarism in china .
but reviving civil society – the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life is a complicated endeavor , as peoples in egypt and tunisia are quick to discover . the most fateful assault to accompany the installation of any dictatorship is a flight to civil society . in ukraine , freedom of speech during communism ’s fall was restored overnight . though communism might , each time and then , coexist with private property ; and , at times with private enterprise , it could never coexist with a more civil society . we in ukraine learned this truism from the harsh lessons of the communist era .
imagine , then , that america ’s intelligence agencies had confirmed that an act of aggression was actually taking place , despite putin ’s denials . even more to the point : would trump have been quick to invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ? and would putin be making another “ unbelievable ” offer to help us investigators reach the bottom of what is happening ? finally , imagine how trump might have reacted in the past . would he have called putin the opportunity to ask what is happening ?
but these outside risks are not making the global growth outlook necessarily grim . europe ’s growth could be above trend , as it is continuing its long , sluggish recovery from its early in the decade . and china ’s ’s ’s economy has been proving doubters wrong for many years . the baseline scenario for the us remains robust growth . so 2019 could well turn out to be another year of solid global growth .
argued by eugene scalia , the son of america ’s supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec was won at the american court of appeals , dc circuit breakers , the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . at a conference last december , i asked sec chairwoman mary leon when her agency planned to reintroduce the rule . but she confessed that the sec had many other items on its agenda , placing the issue on the back burner – a polite way of saying that the sec , like heroic students at tiananmen square , gave up under irresistible pressure . i have even offered to do the cost-benefit analysis for free speech . this little victory proved to be a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than performing such analysis , and redesigning the rule , chose to stall .
and , in western europe , too , gdp is now trending downward . in a nutshell , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic responded to the financial crisis , but without overreactions . true , the fed ’s monetary-policy monetary policy was insufficient to stave off an american recession , though one that remains so mild that many now doubt whether it qualifies itself as a true animal . but those are not normal times , and these are n’t all that . european central banks ’ response has been analogous to the fed , but less forceful , with monetary policy any easier than headline inflation to claim .
when the opposition sought to contest these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki the winner . shockingly , it declared that it did not know who actually won . likewise , eu observers announced that his electoral tally did not meet basic international standards . days later , eck ’s chief publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce the “ results ” immediately , despite clear evidence of vote rigging . the election is a disaster for kenya , but the solutions of a american-led international community are no less distressing .
it is also correct that current global trade tensions hit eurozone producers hard , especially in germany . yet it is harder if monetary policymakers are responding to imposing trade barriers at all . given that market-based measures currently conflict with most other core economic data have as much to do , little weight should be assigned to them . moreover , host to risk-pooling problems make such indicators hard to interpret . unsurprisingly , households ’ ’ surveys and firms ’ inflationary expectations predict actual inflation more accurately .
as a recent morgan stanley report pointed out , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current rate of success is insufficient to keep up with large internal-r & d. in fact , to make the industry its current operating model financially unviable . but this presupposes that possession of such data really does offer a competitive edge , with a closed operating model financially sustainable . at first sight , it seems counterintuitive that companies want to share data , and potentially giving away their competitive advantages . but pharmaceutical companies remain on hand with assumptions about the boundaries of pre-competitive collaborative collaboration that must be questioned . drugs that make it to markets must fund the costs of failure for those that do not make it to the market .
although the iranian government could most likely be deterred from using the country ’s nuclear weapons , the price of a nuclear-armed iran might well go on a regional arms race – a nuclear saudi arabia , perhaps followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , constituent parts , and materials in a region already volatile and violent , and that determines world ’s oil prices , is an appalling scenario . seeking to force iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions has failed to produce results . the markets have already adopted the measure of past week ’s tensions , driving the price of some oil contracts to their highest level in eight months . despite a tightening economic noose – america has imposed sanctions on any firms doing business with iran ’s central bank , and the european union is planning to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports in late january , many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb .
the post-crisis harmonization fervor in italy means that it will now be more expensive everywhere for the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected interest changes . that levy , vigorously backed by those countries whose financial sectors are in post-crisis tatters , is a difficult task to swallow for eu member states that failed to intervene to bail out their banks . the same is true of instance for the derivatives trading system . the levy is an easy way to spread a crisis ’s political and financial costs from some to all eu members . if applied , bank capital will be scarcer , flows of credit slower , and bank accounting higher in a pretty stability-intensive countries , simply because others spent a fortune to underpin their financial systems , and because the european commission never missed opportunities to unify the eu-wide rules .
learnup , a san francifrancisco startup that attracted financing from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , sets partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to particular jobs , primarily entry-level positions that require college degrees do not . employers foot a bill with the expectation that learnup helps them to recruit higher-quality applicants . already , california ’s community-based colleges work with learnup to give students access to the skills they need to fill available local jobs . and , indeed , once candidates finish training , learnup is helping them to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already comprise a few large incumbents . at & t , employers are stepping up the bill , with the expectation that learnup helps them to recruit higher-quality applicants .
portto – the military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president and led to a arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders throughout the country poses an immense danger not just to egypt ’s ’s ’s democratic transition , but to the democratic hope of the entire arab world as well . the fact that the coup , with massive popular support , highlights the tremendous hardship the muslim brotherhood faced during its first turn in power . president mohamed morsi ’s administration struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of tremendous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not just freedom , but also economic development and social justice . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority would not be sufficient , especially nowadays . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own flaws , particularly morsi ’s failure and his government came to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which aided his election .
sadly , the mass killings in africa continue to take place . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state , with massacres of civilians still taking place , particularly around soaking up sofia city . and french military interventions in the central african republic have failed to place an end to severe inter-communal violence . paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa trial – accused of complicity in the rwanda genocide , in which 800,000 people killed between april and july 1994 – began in paris . and french military intervention in the central african republic has placed no end to severe inter-communal violence . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue to unfold across africa , perhaps on a higher scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope .
europeans may not mind that right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than america ) , but perhaps not so pleased should george bush iii come along . moreover , with rising concerns about the sustainability of american fiscal policy in europe , the eu has ample opportunity to play a far larger role as a stepping-currency . one shudders to think what will happen unless europe withdraws from its current funk . certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight to america ’s in world economic policy . fortunately , europeans will most likely not wait until it begins to move ahead again .
the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into japan ’s economy . on the other hand , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and reducing the corporate-tax rate . that implies that it has been inadequate to focus on growth , until deflation gap narrowed considerably – that is , up to now . a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force – an important challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast .
many in us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled only by the providential man , with all the hope – and the dangers – that this expresses . nor will the rise of yet another kind of providential figure come easily . not all of the exceptional periods generate their bonapartes , and this can perhaps be a good thing ; by exceptional leaders , perhaps demonstrating the illusion that every problem has solutions , it is far from the right one . what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from policies is all the more striking given the images of mayhem now emanating from gaza that israel has vacillated and the breakup of the palestinian authority over our very eyes . what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from us politics has all become more striking , given the images of mayhem now emanating from gaza that israel vacillates and the breakdown of the palestinian authority prior to our eyes .
the uk does not have a strong capacity to block other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other eu member states ’ political will to move forward . indeed , last year ’s brexit negotiations on the “ fiscal compact ” were already supposed to demonstrate to cameron the difficulty of exercising a so-called national veto . so , while the cameron government ’s endorsement of deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eurozone can not , and should not , be shaped from outside and on british interests . the uk leadership in such areas has been greatly appreciated , and it would be sorely missed should the united kingdom ’s decision to leave the eu . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing crucial eu policies , including action regarding the single market , overseas development aid , and trade and climate change .
but they will fault the u.s. for not comprehending the wider war itself . in july of that year , robert s. ford , america 's ambassador to syria , was dispatched to the sunni town of hama where assad ’s father ordered the massacre 30 years earlier . according to the us state department at that time , the point of a visit was to " [ expressed ] our profound aid to the syrian people 's right to assemble peacefully and to express themselves . it is already clear that the obama administration failed to learn what it was bargaining for when , not thinking about what should come next , it called in 2011 for assad 's removal . was the administration really failing to foresee that assad – like his father , in front of him – would respond to popular violence uprising ?
beijing – after years of wrangling to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) is under increasing pressure to float the currency . the resulting capital inflow , if persistent , will generate upward pressure on the currency , thus forcing the central bank , in an bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling domestic currency , especially us dollars , until interest rates and the money supply returned to their former levels . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . all economics students are studying the mundell-fleming model , under which the economy is unable to keep its fixed exchange rate , free capital movements , and an independent monetary policy at full capacity . when a country with a fixed exchange rate and open capital account full monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates give market participants an incentive to borrow in foreign currencies , transforming it into a domestic currency of investment .
us presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : a 15 % tax credit for profits that firms distribute to workers in the us in less than two years . tax credit could also foster change in corporate culture , by spurring board-level debates not just on profit sharing benefits , but also on the sharing of information and decision-making authority with employees . by providing temporary tax compensation , the scheme would help companies to offset the administrative costs of establishing profit-sharing programs . to limit costs and avoid abuses , profits totaling more than 10 % at the top of a worker ’s pay would be eliminated ; the overall amount it offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against replacing pay in pay sharing pay raises , raises , and other benefits would be established . stagnant incomes for a majority of american workers are undermining us demand side economic growth ( through discouraging household consumption ) and supply-side channels ( through stronger educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
on the contrary , people seem to identify themselves with putin ’s message that the establishment is finally tackling corruption . and this message is straightforward : nobody is safe from prosecution , even though – like abyzov and ivan , they have retired from public services and no influence in mind . in addition , selective repression has become harsher . a majority of russians see no connection between prosecuting key figures and the authorities ’ credibility . yet it is the message to russia ’s blinkered elites that this is more relevant .
it has also supported a successor to the commission , a high level expert on measuring economic performance and social progress . at the oecd ’s sixth world forum forum on statistics , insights , and policies in incheon , south korea , a group issued its report , outweighing gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . a new report points out several topics , as trust and insecurities that were just briefly addressed by mismeasurement of our lives and explores a few others , such as inequality and sustainability , more deeply . better indicators would have exposed the highly negative and possibly protracted effects of a deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers may not have been enamored of austerity , which lowered fiscal deficits but have reduced national wealth , appropriately measured , even more .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes pondered about reform and regulation of financial markets from a vision of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moved in to … mak [ ing ] purchasing an investment permanent and indissoluble , like marriage … . ” but he immediately drew back : the reality , “ each individual investor flatters himself that his commitment was ‘ ‘ ‘ liquid ’ ’ ( though this can not really be true for all investors collectively ) calms nerves , and makes a lot more willing to run risks .... ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he gambling professional investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone fully exempt from the instinct of money ; whilst he who has it must pay for this propensity the appropriate toll … ” it is for these reasons that we have , or at most , seemed cool for the previous generation , or two whenever we contemplated for reforming our financial regulation system . moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] his play of professional investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone who is completely exempt from the instinct of instinct ; whilst he who has it has to pay to pay to this propensity the appropriate toll … ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” is , first , most would most likely not , in the us , today , say , say , remain frozen as marriage ... . as a result , even in the us today , as a major problem as a major problem
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon of us import tariff on ethanol , whereas virtually no oil tariff is found and only a $ 0.5 per gallon of gasoline taxes . that contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon of subsidies that american companies ( a colossal portion going to a single us firm ) get to ethanol . that is why foreign producers can not compete unless their cost is $ 1,05 per gallon of lower per gallon than or below for american manufacturers . still , for all this enormous advantage , some foreign firms may still be making it to the american market . enormous subsidies meant that the us became the world ’s largest producer of ethanol .
on other issues , notably immigration , obama rejects claims of states ’ rights , insisting on the federal body . moreover , there remains a highly sensitive topic : whereas public-opinion polls in the 2012 us indicate , for the first time in favor of legalization , us opponents remain vehement . the results have shaped not only the conflicts between american federal and state legislatures , but also a sign of a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that involving same-sex marriage . just as important was us president barack obama ’s response to colorado and washington votes , the two states that he won easily in his reelection bid have won . the legal and political challenges that america has implied are no minor matter : marijuana remains a illicit substance under america ’s federal legislation , and the international conventions that america has embraced .
roughly four million northerners have been denied political participation or land-owning on the grounds that they are the descendants of neighboring migrants . the result has been disastrous , because ethnic rivalries have sharpened . whatever else the case for such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves no doubt about the sociopolitical stability gains seen in ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged its former colony . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 resulted in a new , democratic constitution that became an invitation to civil war . in fact , regional and religious tensions have surged out of control since houphouet ’s death , and are undermined by a new constitution that enshrined ethnic discrimination .
political trustworthiness determines who can teach and study what about a country and its past . in the long run , they probably want the state , which alone determines which research fields are both necessary and socially important . in other words , access to knowledge stops being a civil right . these are highly educated people who recognize that knowledge is power ; have a clear agenda ; they recognize , they figure out , being the responsibility of education in the european union , rather than brussels-based institutions . to be sure , these governments want to establish an educational system according to which a state alone determines which fields of research are needed and socially important .
mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , noted that interdependence , formerly an economic boast , has now become as a threat as well . this has left people everywhere , both rich and poor , struggling to cope with the problems , from failing states to failing their failed banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but can not address effectively . dubai – a country of globalization , as many have noted recently , is in retreat . for all of its undeniable benefits , it has dimmed governance problems that have exposed the inequity of national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions have given rise to a political backlash and a risk of catastrophe on many fronts .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has guided the concept of a country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , what china really needs is a new strategic doctrine , because the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelmingly influential nature , but rather the fact that china provided chinese president mahinda rajapaska with both military supplies and the diplomatic cover that he needed to prosecute the war . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system ; it has now been demonstrating its strategic effectiveness within a region that it has traditionally outlived its orbit . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have neither the wherewithal nor the will to ignore world opinion in its offensive to the tigers . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , it was china ’s “ peaceful rise ” that was complete .
when alexander hamilton , america ’s first treasury minister , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement a new american nation . george soros underestimates the risks that a debt realignment would pose to the european future . however , the debt mutualization gave rise to enormous moral hazard effects , inducing nation-states to borrow even excessively . germany has the greatest exposure by far among countries rescuing crisis-stricken countries in the eurozone , and thus helps to alleviate austerity more than any other country . should the breakup of the euro , and gipsic , germany alone would lose around € 545 billion , nearly half of the aggregate sum mentioned because the bundesbank had conducted much of the net payment in the name of gipsic ’s countries , which reflect on target balances .
hong kong – looking back on 2016 , there may not seem much to celebrate . from the perspective of global health alone , the year emerged as one of the unrelenting tragedy . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus were dashed . beyond the stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus emerged as an intensifying threat . there was also the prevalence of antibiotic-resistant microbes or “ superbugs , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the continuing resurgence of yellow fever , and the resurgence of polio in nigeria , previously declared polio-free .
history also shows us that financial exclusion poses a persistent problem whenever the universal demands of services are absent . during the new deal era , regulators comprised the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . but those mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks rapidly shifting away from cheap financial services and toward higher-risk activities . a trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings – which have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced their access to services in low - and middle-income communities – can be viewed with this dynamic . when it comes to making banking equity available , these precedents and existing institutions point the way forward .
it is not hard to see what palestinian negotiators had to be felt as being drove by massive israeli settlements on territory they worked to include an independent state . by december 2016 , obama let the un security council vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major obstacle ” to the two-state solution . after all , the israeli government not only permitted the supposedly un-authorized overposts to exist ; it also provided them with water , electricity , the internet , and the military protection service . this was not lost on all of america ’s leaders , either . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the us congress that direct talks between israel and palestine went “ poof ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank .
new haven : throughout europe and america , the men in the black tie and women in kennedy and armani gowns are a day of summer pilgrims to places such as “ yreuth , glyndebourne , ” and the glimmerglass . perhaps , then , it is also time to ask , once again , a fundamental question : should the state continue to ladle out generous subsidies to such elite activity ? consider a bit of indisputable beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholic high mass mass . does its grandeur mean that the state is supposed to subsidize this privileged retreats ? time and again state coffers are tapped to encourage such privileged retreats .
but foreign policy , it is known , is essentially a manifestation of a nation-state state or superpower . so a key characteristic of foreign policy integration is that governments are unable to know beforehand what they are getting in for themselves . it is not surprising , therefore , that foreign policymaking has made little progress on this issue . in defense and warfare , unpredictability includes the possibility of youth dying in action . it is precisely this contrast underlines the fact that the great successes of eu integration occurred to the fact that imman ’s – land , which lies between total national independence and a total loss of sovereignty within a confederation .
lebanon often struggles to attract financing due to its status as a middle-income country , but this label is misleading , because it ignores the serious structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis , or an overwhelming share of its resident population comprised of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraqis living in abject poverty . as a result , we are facing a shortfall of up to $ 100 million for a new school year . without additional support from the international community , our vision will not be realized , despite strong political will and rigorous planning . i am thankful to a donor from the source of us at the start , but require additional international aid now . one thing i hope becomes clear at the oslo education summit is the need to assist middle-income countries riven by fragility and conflict .
so we use the new year ’s occasion to try to alter behavior that may be the most difficult to change tomorrow . what does this tell us about human nature and our capacity to live either prudently or ethically ? part of the problem , of course , is that we make our resolutions just things that we are not otherwise likely to do . just an aholic would resolve to eat our ice cream at least once a week and only a workaholic will resolve to devote more time before a tv program . that , in turn , makes failure an obvious possibility .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the status quo is that the fed is now overestimating the strength of the american economy over the next 11 consecutive years . if every year of fed forecasting were a coin toss , then we would now have 11 heads in a row and zero tails each year for the fed ’s forecasting period . the fed clearly needs to take a serious look at its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes . the odds of that happening are one in 2,048 , in the 2,048 us . elementary mathematics dictates that credible projections should at least overstate half the time and undershot half as a time .
any study , seeking to determine whether over-diagnosed psychiatric disorder , finds that some patients with a condition do not have it withering conversations . such is the nature of the imperfect trustworthiness of psychiatric diagnosis in the future . how high a percentage of gdp should occur before claiming over-diagnosis is a significant problem and a judgment of value . but we think that a completely diagnosis rate , say , more than 50 % cross the threshold of clinical importance . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously had a diagnosis , it seems , have it not entered into reconversation , but rather with how many .
indeed , during the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash out of search for solutions , and some people lose faith in the economic system itself . in many earlier banking crises , it was countries or the region that were hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they can find at the problem , but it will take time for deleveraging from a boom to a bust to take its course . it is this time that virtually every economy suffers in an uncertain manner , and a banking crisis worldwide .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s sprawling travels in europe this year did n’t attract as much attention as they should , considering the key theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature show of nationalism . now , bannon wants to build up a “ european federation of nationalist parties ” in europe . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his political project anywhere in the world other than in america itself . as more countries turn themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become a ideological common denominator . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen , herself an open-minded supporter of russian president vladimir putin ’s institutions , bannon seems to have in mind a new type of “ neo-nationalist international . ”
one famous incident at the end of the eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to imperial china . macartney ’s flight refused to conform to chinese imperial protocol by dropping to kowtow to the emperor because it was not obligated to do the same to a sovereign . this , too , was very much a case of “ retention ” : the chinese anticipated tribute ; the british lord insisted on the equal status of his king . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang directly from just another incident , almost a century sooner , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london . as a result , the mission broke down .
assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains essentially unchanged over the next five years , and then rises from 2 % to less than 5 % . but when the interest rate on a ten-year bond rises to 5 % , the bond ’s price falls from $ 100 per barrel to less than $ 69 . here is how an arithmetic works for an investor who rolls over ten-year bonds over the next five years , thereby earning 2 % more every year than he would simply do through investments in treasury bills or bank deposits . during those five years , the investor earns an extra 2 % every year , at a cumulative yield of more than 10 % . if it does not , then the losses in the bond price would more than erase the extra interest on which he has earned , even if tariffs remain unchanged over the next five years .
indeed , political leaders should not privilege any particular technology , either . only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest single consumers of hydrocarbons can initiate a global change . this decision would be channeled not against individual mobility , but against the dissipation of an incalculable material need more immediate output to generate synthetic materials . change must begin in the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of all current oil consumption – a share that is likely to rise in the future . g-8 countries should therefore agree not to license any new , gasoline-powered vehicles of 2025 .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has once again succeeded in turning the facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to challenge the supposedly “ raping ” the united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has now reneged on his accusation that the country manipulates its currency when it suits its exports to the us . such statements are just as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation that china ’s currency manipulation does not support the facts . by contrast , over the past two and a half years , mexicans of the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have been intervening in currency markets to reverse course : prevent the renminbi from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states , and national capital , held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping untold girls , many indians found themselves confronting a few agonizing truths to their country . in 2002 , two of these followers mustered the courage to press charges . the leader who spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent among a few “ godmen , ” ” ” or self-empowered spiritual leaders that flourish across india . and he has a reputation for being sexually exploiting his female followers . the flamboyant , gey-bedecked singh calling singh baba gurmeet ram rahim singh insan – a hindu compound of hindu , muslim , and sikh titles – followed by the word for the “ humane ” state in hindi , punjabi , and urdu .
but clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that the eu will lead to more trade diversion , with the likes of china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran . of course , some imports would become more expensive for iran ; but the economic effect of such sanctions will remain limited to the us . politically , ahmadinejad surely would not miss a chance to exploit unilateral actions for propaganda purposes ; he claims that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with its imperialist states intent on depriving its country of its technological progress . europeans , on the other hand , continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program , if only what the united states or the eu could impose unilateral sanctions unilaterally . europeans , for these reasons , favor a new resolution of security council resolution , though its actions are already weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally .
and yet it shares right-wing populists ’ hostility toward liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . his effort to revise japan ’s ’s ’s pacifist constitution , to restore pride in its wartime record , and to discredit the “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspapers asahi shimbun , has earned him the high praise of donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , calling abe a “ america first ” before trump . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that consciously sought to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . abe and his allies are striving to quash that influence . nobody could be more identified with the political elite than abe , the stationing of a wartime cabinet minister and later prime minister , and the son of a foreign minister .
but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationships with global corporations need not be so restricted . african countries , on the other hand , are often left to see the worst parties of multinational companies : energy , mindanao , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources lie , rather than where they are happy to work . ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public picture . because a customer is abroad and there is little processing to make ends meet in a country , why should companies upgrade local skills or otherwise assist a host economy ? as one former mining managers in the region told me , “ the objective has always been simple : throw assets into the ground and out of the country as cheaply and with as little fuss can .
the first large city to boom was london , beginning around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities were pretty much booming ever since ; in real terms , prices were up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . this generated a large windfall for homeowners but hurt anyone planning to make a purchase . now , growth in home prices has been slackening in some of these cities .
after two and a half decades of promoting market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are increasingly aware of how to safeguard their own economic and social interests by using the language of rights . the government employs host the new laws of law , shadow internet police forces , and powerful hardware-founded national-information filtering system . but it is also prompting profound social changes , rooted in rising privileges consciousness within a society , something strengthened down -- and compounded by -- not just growth driven by growth in the economy , but by a rapid diffusion of the internet . what is surprising is that government control mechanisms for this kind of government have been mostly effective . control is also relying on internet users ’ demography , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite , and more likely to embrace the internet as part of their newfound consumer lifestyles than as a political or social revolution .
this european polity lacks a second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups belong to the eu . nor can a single political party or politician in brussels claim to represent european citizens ’ affiliations of european interests , because none must contest the growth of europe-wide public support . but , while a common european causes emerge on a daily basis , they do not have europe-wide political representation . as a result , nationally elected incumbents have a responsibility to make crucial eu-level choices .
this time , too , there was no mention , either by the name of any deep economic thinker or by any particular economic model . is there anything more , really , that one can ask ? even though a president ’s advisors may make a difference , one would think that the candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where a vision of them rests ; after all , realistically what they are peddling is their ability to judge and manage expertise , not their own competence , as economists do . obama originally had a well-known team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . and yet american presidential campaigns , more generally , neglect debate about advisers or intellectual influences .
for another , they will need to make their own , distinct contribution . in short , they will need to make their own collaborative efforts to sustain . simply put , they can not wait for america to budge , nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . what this distinct contribution could be difficult to define for the us . after all , only ingrained us-style habit of empowering eu members from a clear and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences on the west bank and gaza , although such a stance would help to reinforce arab states ’ commitment to a coalition out of terrorism just as it provides a useful shove to american diplomacy .
one reason for this is that tiny numbers of patients make studying illnesses and testing drugs difficult . earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease day program in california . the topic was obscure but large collections ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a particular type of genetic error – one that is taking over from cell machinery that are chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known about what caused the mutations that transmit these congenital disorders , and therapies exist for just a few . as a result , medicaid professionals often know very little about these illnesses and biology .
while it is time that this “ culture of corruption ” will become permeate societies . markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , with politicians selling themselves to the highest bidder . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees regularly buy and sell . though corruption is a symptom more than ukraine ’s cause , the culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might assume that this simply requires hard state action , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen .
settlements , by contrast , offer cheaper housing than is available in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s major economic problems . in israel , obama will encounter a country that has truly moved but not toward a missing center . such a sober interpretation is the new government ’s fragile equilibrium only by reversing this sober interpretation . “ red lines ” that are ” in israel have some form of agtating into lines drawn in sandy , which are then rendered invisible by the slightest headwind . likewise , anyone should expect a moratorium on settlement expansion .
japan had a similar experience during the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit ballooned after the country ’s property bubble had burst , generating economic stagnation . as a result , the ratio of fiscal revenues to total spending this fiscal year slipped to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar postwar history . if japan ’s fiscal stance persist , despite japan ’s weakness , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . if japan ’s government continues on this path , many expect next year ’s budget deficits to widen further .
in late august , heads of state from the thirteen members of the south african development community ( sadc ) – including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power – met in dar es salaam , tanzania to consider challenges before them . among the summit ’s 54 paragraphs of a final communiqué , two dealt with zimbabwe . mugabe ’s regime committed outrage after outrage . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections , which allowed mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and dismantling supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; transforming an fertile , prosperous country once viewed africa ’s breadbasket into a place where more than half the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and as exemplified by its attacks on daily news , the suppression of critical voices . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe .
a 2014 pew study found that , while just 25 % of respondents were satisfied with the direction of national politics , about 60 % were satisfied by governance in their own communities . and the american constitution permits individual states to function like , say , what judge brandeis called the laboratories of democracy by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the outside country at risk . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as were state colleges and universities . california , wyoming , along with other states , allowed women to vote – an example that encouraged passage through the nineteenth amendment ( disenfranchisement of all adult women ) . there is a long , rich , history of successful experiments .
should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? europe needs to aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth and competitive job creation . only greece currently has slightly negative real inflation . the current headline inflation at 0.3 % is the result of a sharp decline in commodity prices , and of the painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in peripheral countries .
the implication is that it is possible to drive speculators to drive prices and raise their inventory holdings , even as overall commercial inventories remain little changed . thus , soaring speculative prices probably have led bunker traders to loosen inventories , but those releases can have been purchased by , for now , speculators , active lessees of commercial storage capacity . additionally , an outgrowth in oil market speculation may have evoked “ echo speculation , ” whereby the ultimate users purchase refined products in advance to avoid future price hikes . they then take their premises to produce overall refined inventories , but that rise is not a portion of reported commercial inventories . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always tricky , as it tends to occur against a backdrop of powerful fundamentals .
furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed and will undoubtedly continue to witness – reverberate beyond an arab map with the establishment of a sovereign kurdish state . but both states lack the domestic revenues needed to sustain their institutions . if they wish to survive well for the next century , they are likely to have to be subsumed under a union backed by a larger , more powerful , and more established nation-state . such a state , whether to “ exisiting de facto ” or widespread formal recognition , will have an enduring effect on borders in the arab world ( syria and iraq ) , and on the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has been toppled by some regimes , albeit not by others .
indeed , it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not identical people between year and year . a good fortune and a bad fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest people are especially vulnerable when adversity – like a hurricane in a fishery village , strikes . so risk management , by smoothing bumps in income , can be enormously important in alleviating the effects of poverty . we have a great tendency to think that new risk-management products , such as the novel kinds of insurance or financial derivatives , will mostly take an interest in the wealthy or at least relatively wealthy individuals . in fact , new risk-management products are on the development of some of the poorest people of africa , brazil , and latin america .
that disconnect is nothing new ; in fact , there have always been tsars and housekeepers , politburo commissars , and the proletariat . today , everyone deals individually with life and hardship ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life uniform . indeed , even russia ’s “ uniformity ” is a different nowadays , in many ways a few months . that postcommunist , boris yeltsin , though he sometimes proclaimed allegiance to hazy collective feelings of rossiyane ( citizens of russia ) , deprived of – or liberated – a point of view – russians of every collective way of life ; both the very real way of shared hardships and the imaginary halfway house of life of communist solidarity . it is in the stroke of a russia that has seen lukoil ( one of russia ’s large private oil companies ) off gas stations .
but , despite the potential benefits of cooperation on controlling illegal immigration , most eu countries – including america and the united kingdom – are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . they view cooperation as unsustainable , given the natural competition among destination and source countries for the most productive domestic workers . a new system in which “ reversible bonds , ” in which quotas and desirability screenings have been replaced , would reduce such competition while mitigating the risks to destination and souring countries . an irreversible way , greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s economic benefits , including international trade deals . irreversible bonds would operate like an insurance mechanism for both parties , shielding destination countries from the detriment of fiscally incentive-driven immigration and protecting source countries from the costs associated with the loss of talented recruits .
real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic region than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the us economy shrunk by an estimated 23 % . every downturn eventually comes down to deflation . germany , the top-performing european country , recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the past six years . the mark of good policy is that it succeeds in making a downturn a shallower and shallower one than it otherwise would have been . so the mark of austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with protracted consequences .
twenty-five years ago this month , poland ’s people were stunned by their choice of their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as pope . here was a prominent writer , “ poland ’s second baptism . ” but even in our own euphoria , we did not expect how much the new pope would change not just poland , but the whole world . his first return visit to his native country soon after the fall of the berlin wall , pope karol wojtyla of cracow , became a pope ’s first step . some have been horrified ; others have scolded ourselves on pleasure .
while hong kong ’s courts surely could deal with the issue on their own , within a set country ’s “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is assured of an independent judiciary , in addition to india ’s right to elect its own legislature , an enraged china has intervened . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ clarify ” article 104 of the fundamental law ’s fundamental right , declaring that all oaths taken by office-holders must be “ solemn , accurate , complete , and sincere . ” yau and leung were barred from accepting their legislative council seats . to most of hong kong ’s attorneys , display political authority represented not just a reinterpretation of the old rules , but a move toward making new ones . restraint , after all , does not amount to leninist virtue , either .
prodded by groups like a worker rights consortium and an ethical trading initiative , some corporations are promising to pay living wages , open their factories to circumventing , and even providing a voice in the workplace . but sensitivity to human rights has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s worldwide decline . the international labor organization reports that unions are in retreat on a majority of nations . reebok , the multinational sportswear firm , advertises his corporate code as being “ based on core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . but the sensitivity of human rights has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s worldwide decline .
that is as it should be . the securities and exchange commission calls for companies using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten at their products to investigate these raw materials of ’ origins as well as to mitigate the risks in their supply chains line at the oecd guidance , if they are to be found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the united states has already taken the next logical step , so far . the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have each committed to similar requirements for mandatory due-diligence . responsible sourcing is a duty , not an option . the responsible sourcing is a duty , not a choice .
most of their productive and financial assets are state-owned with foreign companies , just when most of the rules that they govern their economies were determined by the eu . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to assert that they are defending national sovereignty from the bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays the right part in arms , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema to the eu over ever-closer union and to strengthen the federal authority and legitimacy . the truth , by contrast , is that cee countries have little to lose out on the path of sovereignty . they will conclude that they can have it both ways , maintain the advantages of economic integration , without losing their capacity to infringe upon their citizens ’ rights , or use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships and reinforce their hold over the state .
as the just-released paper “ toward a green economy : pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication ” shows , a market economy as currently constituted by the misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . indeed , a deep and pervasive market failure – in the case of carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – is accelerating environmental and ecological risks , undermining human well-being and social equity . the systemic crises in the fed , fuel , and finance that came out in 2008 and are on the rise in many countries , have their roots in an economic paradigm that does not accounted for the value of nature and its array of life-supporting services . one worry among its critics is that the transition to a green economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to profit-seeking behavior from bankers and merchants whose deficiencies have helped to trigger the current financial and economic turmoil of the last four years . that ’s why governance and rio +20 institutions are just as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are human constructs that demand the rules and institutions that should guide not only their direction , but their boundaries .
by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me an islamophobes ? coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza has appeared on the same trip that the clutch of america of most distinguished would-be middle eastern peacemakers published books on how the challenge ought to be tackled properly . an italian cardinal that admittedly spoke intemperately has been accused of exploiting the language of holocaust denial . third , as usual , israel has found itself accused of anti-semitism by those who have dared to criticize its disproportionate response to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishments by the palestinians . it all has sounded a bit like a set of job applications , a war for president barack obama ’s own ear .
but the former president is now mounting a fevered comeback and might well have won a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 . a similar political imperative lies at the heart of sinhalese chauvinism , which has produced a sudden return to public life in sri lanka . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese have been fuelled during the final , bloody push that brought an end to sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils ’ following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa has continued to play on his country ’s ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by sri lanka ’s ruling democrats and the tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election – an outcome that he then sought to annul – was supposed to end both his career and that of race-baiting politics .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this happens when classrooms become actual targets of terrorists who see education as a threat . in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern arises by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria being the worst affected . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean that the “ fake ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) schools around the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now require security plans to ensure their pupils ’ safety and to give trust to their parents and their communities . such attacks reveal the stark clarity that educational attainment does not concern only blackboards , books , and curricula .
modest seed financing can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . meanwhile , some companies and organizations , including wework , ikea , ikea , and starbucks , are devising innovative approaches to hiring refugees . global organizations are tapping and recruiting networks for online work . some , like tent action , are encouraging companies to hire refugees , and integrating them into the supply chains where they live . more scholarship solutions for refugees , plus more funding for schools inside and outside of refugee settlements , would also be a welcome development .
that is why it is becoming increasingly dismissed , in favor of an agro-ecological model , based on the principles of “ food sovereignty . ” next month , representatives from over 190 countries will meet in sharm el sheikh , egypt , for the fourth-meeting of the parties ’ conference to the convention on biological diversity ( the un biodiversity conference ) . while there will consider whether to issue brakes on gene drives , to ensure that smallholder farmers and indigenous people are fully consulted before those technologies are unleashed in their communities . one hopes that the international community will uphold its duty to safeguard food supplies , along with the rights of farmers worldwide . endorsed by the un human rights council , the latter approach appeals to farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems .
buying time to secure their own political future , venezuelan officials are carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even suggesting near the end while engaging in complex , agonizing , and agonizing cancer treatments that he is still going “ to walk and to exercising . ” the mi/scene emotional manipulation surrounding chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into the electoral support of his gray successor , nicolás maduro . but will that suffice to establish a chávista lineage ? it is not accurate how long venezuelan hugo chávez was actually dead before his passing was officially announced . the information vacuum reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and practices within the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death for weeks , until the succession was settled .
for them , a major hindrance will remain that existing technologies allow insufficient room for labor-intensive substitution : use of less-skilled labor , instead of skilled professionals , or physical capital . governments in developed countries also have a role to play in affecting the nature of technological innovation . such policies are unlikely to make a large difference to developing countries as a whole . too often , labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than propelling innovations in socially more mutually beneficial directions , mitigate rather than compensate for less skilled workers . hence , demand quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not easily be met by substituting machines with manual labor .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump takes office having gained almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with a republican senate majority , whose members win 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . trump will also launch his presidency with an approval rating plummeting below 50 % . only the republican majorities in the us house of representatives – led by speaker paul ryan – have any claim representing a numerical majority for 55 % of americans voting on the 2016 election day . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before deleting it ) to the history of such ratings . actually , the us government of the world ’s oldest democracies is not democratic .
the s-400 dispute is just the latest example of how military procurement matters has compounded the rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s view , its western partners have not done enough , via technology-transfer and joint-manufacturing schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . in contrast , chinese and , to a lesser extent , russian firms have been more receptive to such turkish demands , as a part of the latter ’s military procurements . and domestic defusing domestic deftness , defense-industry interests are just part of the story . more broadly , turkey and the west are experiencing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threats perceptions and alliances in the conflict in syria .
underdevelopment in many of the southern countries that faring poorly in their struggle to remain viable in an globalizing world creates conditions for desperate poverty , ecological breakdowns , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond atrophying state systems . this is not to say that our response to the perils emerging from the legacies of past must be rooted in the past . we will not develop a world any better than it was in three century by forgetting what happened in the 2010s and much of the bottom 20 . as we embark on a still-new millennium , though it seems ironically clear that tomorrow ’s potential disorder might be the result , by no small measure , of yesterday ’s colonial rule . what is needed is more than ever to pursue innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance .
in bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have offered four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · a joint us-american expert meeting studies on how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrence , and what steps can be taken to minimize potential problems ; · an expanding degree of nato-russian theater-level bmd exercises that build on earlier collaboration have been disrupted by russia ’s august 2008 warsaw pact with georgia ; and that rehearsed how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly resist missile threats ; · a underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects . · the bi-national and multilingnational jointly manned centers , where russian personnel might see the unthreatening nature of the us and nato missile-defense activities ;
his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) , and to curtail growth in medicaid spending , have been unsuccessful . though the tax package trump signed on to legislation last december front-loaded tax cuts and is now helping the economy grow , government revenues have a lot to respond to that resulting growth . under these conditions , trump ’s largest and boldest policy proposal is likely to run into budget constraints . he has already eliminated any reform of social security more broadly . and a temporary increase in defense spending will revert back to well below levels after this fiscal year .
granting observer-state status to palestine would remove the table for a “ one-state ” solution that has lately gained momentum among experts . but those sound grounds for supporting palestine ’s bid probably will not hinder the eu from delivering a split ; instead , the reverberations to not only throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but also impeding europe ’s efforts to reset relations with countries in the middle east and north africa . indeed , europe ’s divided attitude toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record on achieving the foreign-policy consensus . the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve a jewish state ’s identity . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivered an unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment .
moreover , in countries where google is being criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights information ’s absence when something is blocked – letting people know that it exists , but that they can not have access to it . on the other side , each time someone in china googles something , and gets the response – a product of good and bad points , details about somebody the government does n’t like – must wonder , “ why ca n’t i recover this kind of information about everything ? ” with google , people are beginning to expect answers about everything . rather than calling for an end to censorship now , google is working to make that happen by disseminating government control over information . some level of transparency will inevitably lead to more of it ; more , it ’s more and more .
r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them do so ; and that if a state is “ manifestly failing ” to protect its people , the broader international community has a responsibility to step in with – and decisive action – that might in an extreme case include military action if the un security council is approved . while no outcome has been formally agreed or made public , a few themes emerge from the beijing meetings . taken together , they offer reason for confidence that it may reanimate international consensus , so long a lack of consensus in syria , on how to handle the hardest multi-atrocity incidents . first , there has been widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously adopted by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . true , some chinese scholars remain prone to argue that the entire r2p enterprise – particularly its penalties of military action on exceptional cases – is simply “ old neo-interventionist ” display in a new leadership ” bottle .
by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle globalization ’s benefits . so the global economy should really think of itself as a global capitalist system . global integration has brought benefits quite well : the international division of labor that are so clearly demonstrated by our theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic advantages like those of economies of scale and a rapidly diffusion of innovations from one nation to another ; and noneconomic benefits , such as freedom of thought associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and freedom of thought through an international movement of goods , capital , and people . but global capitalism is not without problems , and these are better understood if we wish that the system could survive . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent efforts to correct and contain the system ’s deficiencies .
worse for trump , widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the us congress commit the impeachment process . mueller explained that a controversial us justice department policy aimed at helping president richard nixon , bars impeachment of a sitting president . this is neither in the constitution nor the law . trump was portraying the report as fully exonerating him ( “ no collusion , no obstruction ) , even though the report explicitly stated it was n’t the case . ( nixon was an unindicted negotiating co-conspirator in watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in new york , involving his participation in pre-election payoffs to silence two women , with whom he had sex liaisons little , shortly after his son , barron . )
should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to react militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . moreover , russia has been enforcing a full-fledged georgian trade embargo in the hope of weakening resolve by its pro-western president mikhail saakashvili . renewed conflict in abkhazia would bring not only the risk of open warfare with russia , but strain relations with armenia , owing to a presence of near 50,000 armenians in abkhazia that supports a breakaway government . another risk in the south caucasus is that , in the south caucasus , russia ( with armenian backing ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan . russia ’s supposed “ peacekeeping force ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgian ’s other secession-minded region has de facto protected their rebel governments .
on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for it , and a eurogroup of eurozone parliamentarians ( made of european commission members and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister accountable . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a distinct eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for him , and a eurozone parliament ( made of european parliamentarians and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister accountable . ahead of germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new coalition government , a franco-german working group was formed to consider macron ’s proposals . now , with merkel ’s new administration in place , we will figure out how far germany is willing to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short term , a new government will appear unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in their existing shape .
today , they are an important feature of most advanced and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably in chile , germany , india , and south korea . the financial crisis has also prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs , and other countries to expand theirs . and large ndbs can have major implications , especially for emerging economies . moreover , ndbs ’ total assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . at the same time , the recent establishment of two other big mdbs is attending the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , and south africa ) , will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as i highlighted earlier this year , conservatives ’ marshall plan would have solved one great problem – the rundown of britain ’s department of diplomacy by creating a far larger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
so what should american and other governments supporting liberal democracy now do ? the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and for countries throughout the region as a whole . as many commentators have pointed out from islamists watch , morsi ’s removal looking remarkably like the algerian military ’s overthrow of the arab spring in 1992 ( with american support ) of an elected islamist government in 1997 when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s reversal of its support for an “ arab democracy ” following hamas elections in gaza in 2006 . more broadly , military interference with civilian politics for whatever reason weakens the country ’s processes , its institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy work . if choices for islamists continue bullets or ballots , bullets may now look more promising .
this not only undermines their capacity to deliver effectively to their jobs ; it also puts them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling assaults against those who provide them . as a result , since 2000 and 2015 , tb prevalence has fallen by 75 % . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and ship for muslims . yet the world continues to underestimate frontline health workers ’ capabilities and contributions . for example , in early nepal , rwanda and ethiopia have recruited and trained thousands of such workers to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities on preventive and detection , replacing tools like bed nets , and administering treatments .
once the potential “ military threat ” ” ” ” posed by the soviet union vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither military nor ideological purpose . the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : to draw former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . these criteria were later abandoned when nato began to invite even the most backward and corrupt states to join them . moreover , nato not only enlarged its membership to take its place , but also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliances into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) . originally , nato ’s new members were proclaimed to have met both democratic and military criteria .
normally , the fund expects the problems emanating from the usual suspects in an economically volatile developing country , but this time when the crisis erupted a few miles away from its imf headquarters . ironically , this put the imf to focus on its oversight role . perhaps that proximity stood at the root of the imf ’s inability to interpret the evidence right on the beneath its nose . so , looking to the imf ’s causes of failure , we can exclude a distraction by any more urgent matters . if it does , it is a failure that raises two key questions .
it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” ” between france and the un that is essential to understanding the french position on libya . indeed , the same relationship between france and the un that led to the country ’s resistance to intervention in iraq in 2003 has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . at the crossroads of that question stands nato , an organization perceived as american by europeans and international ( i.e. , not by american ) by the average american citizen of average . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command on earth in libya , it is the un that has given the necessary green light to french action there . it is a shift that raises a key question : when those who are willing and able to act incapable of establishing it successfully , a ” ” ” what happens to global stability unless those who are also willing to step in ?
but if that hour really were a lunch with a lobbyist , then both they ( and their aides ) would need to lie deliberately , in most cases , to conceal that way . if the official encounters with a lobbyist and is not terribly ashamed , then there can be simply saying . there is , of course , not a way to enforce full disclosure , but by creating explicit processes and expectations , it can be hoped that you would reset norms . and when an official meets mostly with expert lobbyists , to the detriment of other kinds of meetings , voters can set the right judgments on that , too . putting aside all of these inferences , voters can make their own judgments .
big tech firms might argue that all the capital they pour into new products and services is propelling innovation . yet one suspects that , in many circumstances , intent on nip potential competition in the bud is the bud . and there is the risk that the tech giants might be using their vast armies of programmers to develop a near-certain identical product and their vast regulatory resources to support it . what is notable is that big tech continues to extract most of its revenues from its companies ’ core products – for example , the apple iphone , microsoft ’s office , and google ’s search engine . as a result , potentially disruptive new technologies are just as likely as nourished .
in other words , precisely because occasional shopkeepers trade seldom do a lot easier to prove the nexus between their trades and the illicit ttip . in rajaratnam ’s case , the potential to forge such connections has come through telephone surveillance . historically , both state and federal attorney general generals have favored prosecution by “ occasional ” traders who stick to them like unilever ’s sore thumb . for example , when an insignificant italian bank has received from someone who has never traded large-scale order for the shares of us shoe shortly before a company acquired by an italian eyemaker luxottica , it was not hard to smack of someone . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes hundreds of trades on a daily basis .
roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in the rate of hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still exceed twice as likely as boys to carry the virus to carry the virus . yet barely one-third of young africans are aware of how to prevent hiv – another cause for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . in fact , african girls are disproportionately vulnerable to hiv contracting . the next epidemic afflicting african women is a violence ; all too often perpetrated with impunity . yet , sexual violence is being used as a war tactic .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . this may be true much or most of the time , or perhaps most , in turkey itself . but there are moments when an individual leader , or even a woman , choices may change the course of history . that has certainly been true in russia ; and it might soon turn out to be true in turkey just as well . the actions and decisions of a single man or a woman , no matter how powerful , may not determine the destiny of nations .
as i show up in a new peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , the paris agreement would cut temperatures by just 0.05 ºc in 2100 . figueres has suggested that the paris accord will cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c – even though her formulation has been crafted to avoid actually stating this , it is , predictably , what has been heard by most people . this may seem surprising : we keep hearing how every country has made important commitments to cut its co2 emissions – so-called “ intended nationally determined contributions , ” ” ” or indcs . according to the un ’s climate action chief , christiana figueres , “ indcs have the capability to limit the forecast temperature rise to about 2.7 ºc ” by 2100 , with no one enough but a much lower proportion than the estimated four , five-year , or more warming degrees projected by many early . the rise in the sea-level rise would have been equivalent to just 1.3 centimeters , at best .
an alternative view holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call , spurring europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . to be sure , an alternative view holds that brexit , trump himself ’s election , together with the rise of populist and nationalist parties , will serve as a wake-up call , spurring europe toward broader integration and distributional policies . the anti-european political forces are making electoral inroads and will continue to gain ground as long as growth remains anemic , and unemployment remains stubbornly high . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for taking its own house in order , while upholding the eu ’s own fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the existing system imposes far too many constraints , and contains too little effective adjustment mechanisms .
russians have come to realize that they need not win at all costs ; they can be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so . then came the pension reform , spurring a string of protests that drove putin ’s pledge to soften the measure , while asking for russians ’ understanding . and on september 9 , while local government voting took place , tens of thousands of russians joined the protests , orchestrated by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could not attend the event , after being arrested for an earlier , uncontrolled demonstration . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % of the population said they were prepared to protest further .
china ’s imperial state and society were thus destabilized by european incursions . by the time europe and china crossed route in the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , impelling china to a series of unilateral , degraded concessions . by itself , china has squandered its economic and technological potential , not because of exogenous force . the imperial dynasty imploded in 1911 , under external pressures , and with internal demands for change . so far , change has not yet come smooth .
these cities ’ obvious success , because both government and economic centers , attests to their urban land that secures value from the presence of a well-planned urban there . true , establishing such cities in a relatively rare way is a relatively rare event . but they tend to be ingenious at the development of glamorous new territories from tiny towns within one hour of the major cities . where land today is cheap , it will mostly have great value in the future if only someone takes the dramatic step of planning , and creating a whole city there . in any case , private developers have difficulty getting a large-scale plot free of restrictions .
it can last for awhile , but creates increasing friction with the economic realty and chavez ’s increasing incentive to become authoritarian . if he follows statist/populist , 2001 will likely be a depression year . so far , venezuela ’s elite , with much of the investment community , assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , only badmouthing . no imminent crisis can happen , but chavez must choose venezuela ’s future . if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , the path to growth and stability will be taken .
that means that the us treasury expects its average surplus since 1979-2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp , up from the cycle ending , allowing brown ’s strictures to expire . but , for independent forecasters , this is becoming more pessimistic . enormous surpluses in the three years since 1999 far outweigh official deficits forecast in the coming two years . average budget surplus since that cycle begins to reach 0.8 % of gdp . growth is predicted to return above the 2005-06 trend , bringing the current upswing to an end .
in the process , perhaps we understand that we vote because that is what citizens ought to make , and we excel at our jobs , because we strive to respect and self-realization , not just the overhead . a new revolution in economics can find room for strategies based on affecting ideals and identity , not just taxation and subsidies . instead , a strategy derived from the view that all our behavior is selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or treaties , an effort also recognized with nobel prizes . but , as georgia ’s price demonstrated long ago , darwinian evolution may have rendered us altruistic , at least to the people we perceive as members of the group that we call “ us ” ” ( i perhaps a member ) . a new revolution in economics can find room for strategies based on affecting ideals and identity – and not just taxation and subsidies .
moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato ’s command ( that is , american ) control , thereby possible with any coup attempt or stirring up trouble among the romanian people and our sizeable hungarian minority , may inhibit action . the more tightly tied to a democratic world in a country like romania , the less likely it is to be to experience dramatic social or political unrest , or eviscerate its social-democratic system . such openly thuggish rulers , like ukraine or lukashenka of belarus , is almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . of course , nato can not safeguard democracy alone , and is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; still , it can act ( and has done so throughout the admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly , and for upholding the rule of law itself . nato fixes tough limits to local political elites ’ autonomy to do whatever they claim .
indeed , the consequences of leadership degradation are easy to see : faltering economic and growth , mounting social tensions , and a loss of government credibility . that is precisely the underlying dynamic that is driving corruption in china today . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet-era communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s ’s ’s hosni mubarak – are typically viewed as invulnerable , even just before their collapse . the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor mounting evidence of regime performance in china has persuaded even some of the most knowledgeable observers that an end to ccp rule today constitutes a distinct possibility . the power of conventional thinking is clearly reflected in the power of the conventional thinking behind the ruling regime .
on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to take advantage of a flush toilet adjoining his room , instead employing a chamber pot that he brought china out . perhaps , he suspected stalin , as the bbc ’s purported upping last year , that he had been collecting and analyzing his feces to glean information about great helmsman ’s temperament . some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , who falsely claimed that gaveled on a desk at the un general assembly in the 1960s , should once again steer clear of the topic through world leaders ’ manners . but there is a point about recent behavior . when it comes to the diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would call “ form . ”
that is why the so-called “ system liberals , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” or kremlin-backed change want to check the protest movement and use it as a lever in an ultimate battle with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatuses ) . indeed , a potential heir today needs legitimacy , not only from the mighty oligarchs but also from the street . until recently , successive loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes criticizing a government that should somehow be influenced by constructive propositions . system liberals believe that , on the whole , russia has built an acceptable market economy . its further development requires merely eliminating some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform .
that struggle does not end , but after my intervention , moscow ’s authorities need to reflect on the public ’s negative attitude toward their effort to quash that publication . my office has worked closely with the state to assure that in most cases juries are used in most cases . my office pays maximum attention to chechnya , although that will not be easy to do so from moscow . similarly , my office defended the liberal daily newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) , which is being pressured by moscow ’s municipal government on the pretext of a lease on life . to be sure , it is russia that provides far more headfix examples of political and human rights problems like the low grade war in chechnya or the yukos affair .
new delhi – the international debate over china ’s rise has centered on its rising trade muscle , growing maritime aspirations , and expanding its capacity to project military power . yet one critical issue usually escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro--hegemon with no modern historical parallels . asia ’s water map has fundamentally changed following its 1949 communist victory in china . indeed , china , the world ’s largest dam builder , with slightly more than half of the planet ’s roughly 50,000 giant dams , is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive hydro-engineering projects on supranational rivers . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent by controlling the headwaters of multiple transnational rivers and manipulating its cross-border flows .
as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , at minimal minimum , higher capital requirements , and tighter regulatory scrutiny . escaping financial institutions that have escaped relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes about their political power . they generate continuing risks for economic stability , without providing compensating benefits in terms of increased investment in productive activities . moreover , as failures of financial regulation indicate – important as they are – they need to be complemented with measures that redress a political approach to asymmetry . in the us , holding workweek elections rather than weekends or holiday , combined with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering and myriad other electoral rules , places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage .
for israel , an occupying power whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority and gdp tens times that of people denying basic human rights for freedom and autonomy , the photo opportunity provided by encounters and greeting palestinian leaders has replaced genuine peace . negotiators parsed every possible solution to permanent-status issues concerning jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic relations as well . a serious look back at the 17 years since yassir arafat , and yitzhak rabin shook hands on the white house chwn , is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in areas israel occupied in 1967 . leaders of the world ’s superpower , the united nations civil servants , the elders , and tens of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and the services they need to bring about peace .
such is the case in the us and american and chinese . in other words , there was sparked by an export miracle not by state-sponsored chinese companies , but by china-crafted offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west . that led to the economic equivalent of a crisis of personal identity : who is in china – or the us ? in personal relationships , the denial tends to mask imbalances , but only for so long . ultimately , denial-fon fissures and imbalances give rise to frictions and blame – holding a codependent partner responsible for one ’s problems .
as lamy has put it , almost 80 % of that curry is ready ; the us needs only extra spices from the major players – india , the european union , brazil , and china . those can be given in politically palatable ways , which also implies that a doha round is within our reach , rather than beyond our grasp . moreover , if doha fails , some will say that life will go on . that is true , of course , but that does not make this view any less naïve . but why , then , bother to continue trying ?
given that 20 % of russia ’s gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its government has , understandably , taken on top . moreover , the eu has suddenly awakened to the need for a joint external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . in turn , lukashenko has chosen on the economic grounds that his country needs eu support , and can no longer depend solely on russia without paying its heavy political price . but the thaw in the eu-belarus relationship needs reciprocal , sustained steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing the drastic drop in its natural capital . plant and animal species worldwide are vanishingly at an unprecedented pace , falling from 100 to 1,000 times the rate of natural extinction . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer from the degradation of their natural environment . to be sure , the planet ’s most compromised ecosystems are located in developing countries , and thus depend on some of the world ’s neediest communities to conserve . but , in the developing world , immediate economic need often override longer-term imperatives , protecting a fragile environment is rarely a national priority .
africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy portfolio , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and over 100 gw of wind-power capacity . and south africa ’s renewables procurement program has seen overall electricity prices decline and oversubscription rates . simultaneously , renewable-energy sources have become less expensive globally , forcing them to become increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy asset portfolio , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity and more than 100 gw of wind-power capacity . this is more than enough to meet the continent ’s future demand . for example , the price of utility-scale solar photovoltaic energy in africa has fallen by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , continuing a downgrading today .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a staple in europe , whether the narrative is of an illicit malian immigrant scaling up a toddler , or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . having been left out of the eu , however , the anti-brexit camp has engaged in similar distortions , warning that once it was left out of the european union , the uk would be facing skills shortages . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , sweden , and singapore – are doing just fine , without agreements guaranteeing the freedom of movement out of other countries by issuing skills-matching visas . and yet , despite steady coverage for the issue at a particular time , or more likely because of it , the migrant ’s political discourse remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly spurious , and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe drove wages .
looking ahead , the same structure of cost-of-dynamics promises to produce big increases in a range of areas of well-being . that ’s not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; but we do need to recognize its limitations . in fact , most medical professionals will soon have digital assistants offering diagnoses ( particularly for specific cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and various chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research . the gdp problem is n’t just that it is poor measurement of material well-being ( setting aside distributional issues ) , but that it is incomplete . nor does it include a rise in the size of goods and services that is delivered at cost-negative , non-material side with individual well-being , or social progress more generally .
significant change in india ’s social composition , as well as in bureaucrats since independence , is indeed a testament to democracy at work . but many lament that the country ’s poor performance in general offers far less reason for celebration . whereas psephological studies in the united states demonstrated that the poor would not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the reverse is also true in india . in india , the poor , taking time to line up in hot sun , believing that their votes would make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers would do little to influence the outcome , were staying at home . studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the poorest vote in numbers well above the national average , while well-educated middle class lags in numbers well below it .
should we be watching the french presidential campaign with a mixture of admiration or alarm ? it is undeniably a big “ show ” with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a startling conspiracy twist : the emergence of a “ third person , ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou now must be taking serious action . first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal , and nicolas sarkozy has two notable spokesmen for his candidacy , and for the first time in his life . or perhaps a little of both ?
japan has recently agreed to enter into preferential trade agreements with the united states that could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ most-favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which specifies that any concessions or privileges granted to a single country in a trade deal must be extended to all of the wto ’s members . according to press reports , trump has put japan on a stark choice : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports or face increased american tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s ’s agricultural market would seem to be render moot trump ’s “ national security ” worries over imported toyotas and hondas – an reasoning that allows him to circumvent wto rules on his tariffs . but that may be changing in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating assaults on a rules-based trading system . here japan is again acting “ voluntarily , ” under strong american pressure .
not unlike holland ’s in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high real interest rates . whereas brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its fast growing labor force requires severe labor-market creation rates . the idea is not that brazil should strive to implement the dutch socio-economic model -- countries are too different for the time being . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his trade union links , as well as his labor class rapport with brazil , to accomplish a social pact that aims to achieve lasting improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance , and realizing his potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse . emulating the dutch experience with job creation gives the surest feasible path to ending poverty in brazil .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” twice more twitter followers than a national rifle association almost overnight . nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills the functions of a democracy that online activity , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . thus , american civil rights marchers during the 1950 ’s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning of our numbers . ” in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank questioned why occupy wall street protesters , in turn , think that simply being physical in their place does much , ” ” ” ” an appropriate response would have been : “ in fact , occupying public spaces can do a great deal , depending on who the occupiers are , and how many are . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulation and their opposition to the american gun lobby .
economic commentators have been better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than at predicting future trends . so , when it comes to explanations of the dollar ’s relative decline over the last year , the us is being met with an embarrassment of riches . the favored explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . nor has a across-the-board import tariff been introduced . the abrogation of the northern american free trade agreement occurred not in an abrogation .
in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . to me , this view of things explains much better than the orthodox account , why for all money-pumping central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again , and economies ’ recoveries were petered out . just as lenders did not force money on the public good out of the crisis , so now they ca n’t force heavily indebted households to borrow or firms to seek lending to expand production when markets were flat or shrinking . to be sure , some worry about collapsing household saving rates ; but few have overly worried . in one of his recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings were nowadays taking the form of homes .
but there appear to be some fundamental rules of political survival that were ignored in australia in recent years , and that spelling out such a way could help both the alp and others bear in mind . the tremendously successful labor governments , led by bob hawke and paul , have done just that , essentially inventing a “ third way ” model that later became connected with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its components were clear : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case with lower-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social-wage ” increases in medical care and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and liberal internationalist foreign policies . on the other hand , the alp ’s current alp government has struggled , until now , to re-create anything as compelling . philosophy is the first rule .
finally , to absorb and integrate over a million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs to mobilize private-sector sectors – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . that will require not only sufficient financing , but also the manpower and capacity to match migrants and sponsors . this is to be a fifth component of a comprehensive plan . a exodus from war-torn syria was never supposed to turn into a crisis . it was long in the making , easy to foresee and eminently manageable to the european and international community . that will require not only ample financing , but also both the geopolitical and the capacity to match the interests and sponsors .
furthermore , there are , unfortunately , the distributional effects of a green transition . with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp every year in 2040 , a smaller correspondingly smaller share of gdp will be available for household consumption . what is not a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of the fuel-inefficient houses , gluttonous cars , and oil-producing corporations declines . it would be the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to be shut down and additional investment , so that gdp would become less carbon-intensive . the issue does not originate in the use of the price tool .
but it also represents an opportunity for the eu to forge a new uk-eu partnership . since the launch of the brexit negotiations , the us and the eu – the 27 member states and the european parliament – has softly refrained from the bloc ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s core interests , not lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . and , besides , things could get far worse – and still much worse – . our priority , first and foremost , was to secure the rights of europe ’s citizens , including by finding a solution to the peoples of northern ireland and greece , for whom negotiations were about peace and stability , rather than just business and economy . because of the withdrawal agreement hammered out this past october , a destructive , “ tough ” brexit was averted .
such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a principal advocate of american expansionism in the long run : “ just war is , in the long run , far better for one ’s soul than the most prosperous peace process . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama – immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east – received his nobel peace prize with an apology for “ just wars . ” and nothing has attenuated the tension between israel and both syria and lebanon . the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the diplomatic charade that it has now for many years . history teaches that diplomacy produces results only when backed by overwhelming power .
yet , nowadays , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is only the latest of saudi arabia ’s worries . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive to the west bank is about political strength , rather than judaism . so fundamental are the changes to the kingdom in its strategic interests that , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , it has said nothing when us president donald trump recognizes jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . at the same time , politics is superseding the religidian of religion within israel .
no day passes without major headlines about large mergers in europe ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations leave mites . europeans are abuzz with mergers not only to take europe ’s wider economic space , but to confront tough competition in world markets as well . in france ’s large strategic plays , in banks and fashion ; italy sees its leading players as alone on a european and global scale . in sum , the old continent is at a heat , too . nobody can say how deep those changes will go , nor how quickly they will shift europe into a fast-moving lane .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules have set a positive example for other eurozone countries . recent studies show that , once a government ’s debt burden reaches a threshold normally perceived as unsustainable , more debt becomes only stunt , rather than incentivize , economic growth . greece ’s debt crisis was a clear warning that europe ’s policymakers may not be able to pile up indefinitely . the eu was right to react vigorously to europe ’s stability , by providing short-term assistance to greece , and establishing europe ’s financial-stabilization mechanism . but it does require all eurozone governments to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation to help restore confidence in markets , both – and to their own citizens .
it is this kind of vocabulary , which emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or to financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the actual sons and daughters of nations . in the 1830s , fascists and nazis decried jews as well , like marxists and freemasculated , as “ cosmopolitans ” ” ” ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalty was suspected . to be sure , to prewar fascists was often viewed as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . not regarded as part of native russians ; jews were assumed to belong to an international cabal and hence inherently imtreacherous . but stalin failed to invent this idea as he saw it .
the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is , by no means straightforward . it should be above the constitution and not a referendum article . but was the ansar al-shariah brigade in the us actually behind the american consulate in istanbul ? salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend , based on a core belief that armed tactics of all types are the most effective – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – method for bringing about social and political change . “ they should not come near a shariah . ”
the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel . in any case , israel now seems to have dropped the charade over time . when netanyahu refused three times to answer questions from the press about his support of a two-state solution , his support for a two-state solution was no longer clear . their hope surely faded further when it saw bulldozers arriving to prepare the ground for new settlements , rather than an uncommon occurrence . he recently argued that his ultimate objective is to have a palestinian “ nation minus ” that is limited in both size and sovereignty .
europe ’s design flaw – an economic union motivated by policy , but well-expressed in economics – became manifest itself . structural shifts to economies that had experienced a sharp decline in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now must be rendered more rapidly , through crisis , and free of the luxury of devaluation . at present , that promise is severely at issue . the pro-europe foundation was , in part , the promise of ever regaining upward prosperity . on the surface , the pain wrought by this policy was revealed in protests across the continent and in the bitter repercussions for many struggling families , the young and elderly .
if west germany , facing unification , rolled back all of these unaffordable constraints to freewheeling markets , the economic costs would remain far lower : east and west germany would have more nearly full employment , the productivity drive would have been far more aggressive . to be sure , germany ’s " corporatism " did not permit any such solution : unions wanted their wages protected . after all , the problem was not with east germany but rather with the west . unification meant everybody to gain not only the advantages of west german economic institutions – property rights , and hard money , but also all of the disastrously negative institutions : trade unions , over-priced unemployment , and over-hiring security , pervasive regulation . as a result , the only way to be provided for a government to pay lots in unemployment compensation in a high-paid east germany was to be clear .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , offered an unequivocal veto on a core issue in the middle east peace process . mofaz ’s declaration is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted not just in the middle east , but also in the united states in much the same way . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in a “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s borders , and thus of a move not just politically naïve but irrational . that notion is a hegemonic iran that is attempting to dominate the region through a array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column believe that a split from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad , and , finally , from iran to yemen , to yemen .
in the united states , president barack obama and other democrats , control both the house of representatives and ( filibuster-proof ) the senate , had the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 – and thus to do so . the recent election , which followed such a sweeping shift in the policy direction that came in 1980 , when us president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending and regulation , and encouraged the federal reserve , along with a course of disinflation . obama and his congressional allies enacted a $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that deployed programs to key democratic constituencies such as environmentalists and the civil servants ; adopted sweeping and broadly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined by the us supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced industrial policies that selects specific corporations for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at the same time outpaced by world war ii ; and centralized washington , executive and regulatory agencies . while things were also fairly consequential in 1988 , 1988 , 1992 , and the 2000 election were not nearly as large as in 1980 and 2008 . stanford – successful political candidates to implement the proposals to which they were running .
opponents of trade liberalization decry both the secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto and the influence of corporate interests at rule-making . developing countries complain about the restrictive regulations they use to impose on their exports ( garments , agricultural goods , labor services ) , and worry that the new demands that they confront over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . they see a trading system , which privileges entrepreneurship over labor , environmental safety , and consumer safety . at the same time , what is disputed is the character of these rules . all parties agree that the international economy ’s stability is predicated on a global rules-based system .
not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy , to the point that services account for over 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way . but , in fighting for freedom from south africa ’s apartheid , geingob says that namibia must defend the freedoms that it won . besides , geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from demanding favors from the corporate sector and other interest groups . some – like fisheries – are renewables , and the government has been working hard to preserve and enhance them .
consider the following four phrases in his paper : · “ at no minimum , it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full variety of effects . ” gordon ’s argument ’s vulnerability is his shortened time horizon for the # 3 ir # 3 . · “ both the first two revolutions demanded roughly 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economy . ” · “ the inventions of ir # 2 were so important … that they took the full 100 years to have their principal effect . ”
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to react to the inflows that will inevitably drive down their exchange rates and threaten export-led growth . a first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . this may be the right response if inflows and upward exchange-rate pressures are driven aggressively by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , large and persistent growth rate ) . but , on many issues , these inflows drive short-term factors , commercialization , and irrational exuberance that can lead to an overvalued currency , crowding out non-traditional export industries or import-competing sectors , loss of competitiveness , and eventual large current-account deficits , and thus tighter external constraints on growth . this problem is compounded by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any renminbi appreciation .
as long as the stock of government debt remains excessive , consumers will dismiss the reduction in interest rates as nothing more than a temporary subsidy from the fed . if labor-force participation rates were still 66 % as low as it was in early 2008 , rather than the 62.8 % rate that it did when december 2013 , the youth unemployment rate would be only above 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . moreover , the shortfall in joblessness largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , discouraging many workers from remaining in the labor force . yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery . plunging debt service largely the outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policies .
but while she likes to raise her voice , she acts with prudence : today ’s german fiscal adjustment is , in reality , very gradual . italy ’s countries are facing fiercest budget battles are , the eu , the united kingdom , and america , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the offensive . on assuming office , he has entrusted budget forecasting to a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby shaking any opportunity for sleight-of-hand . he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut its cyclically adjusted deficit to 1.5 % of gdp , targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 .
other great and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subjected to decades of restrictions on their acquisition of some types of weapons and military equipment . similarly , a refusal by palestinian refugees to claim a right of return to israel is both understandable , logical , and just . are they going back to homes and farms that no longer exist ? indeed , the demilitarization of the sinai are one of egypt ’s fundamental elements of stability with israel . what a sense for them makes it difficult to rally millions of palestinians back to a state whose spiritual and symbols are foreign to them , a state where a majority belongs to another ethnic group ?
the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign is asking voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi , of legacy – a legacy that serves as prime example of damage to right-wing populism can do to the country . in austria , voters will choose between pro- and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for hofer could add to wind to le pen ’s sails . renzi ’s proposed reforms , among other things , would modernize the political system , by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) . among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from regaining full power , in order to block any criminal charges which might ensue .
would a truly self-confident governing elite have been so skittish in its activism ? consider the tough treatment of a gadfly critic , liu xiaobao , who sentenced to 11 years in a prison address on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” crimes for launching an online petition drive championing civil liberties . still , it is important to remember that a positive aspect of this party ’s self-confidence is positive . as the political scientist kevin mattis has argued , in recent years china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protestors , rather than treating all forms of collective action as subversive , can be viewed as reflecting a growing sense of security . conversely , at a time when some of china ’s most troubling movements can be chalked up to an exaggeration to exaggerated feelings of insecurity .
anti-dumping laws aim to ensure fair trade by preventing imports below costs . but it makes a difference for whether a good is produced home or abroad . within the developed world , concerns about such behavior have long run out -- so-called " predation '' -- and well-defined norms have been developed . with globalization , it would be natural to expand such principles into the international arena , making it irrelevant whether a producer is domestic or foreign when judging by whether it is engaged in an unjust trade practice . but discussions about competition and fair trade are again demonstrating intellectual poverty and the inequity of trade negotiations .
but treaty ratification proceeds nowhere fast in the american senate and progress on other key issues have been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty ( ctbt ) into force ; start negotiations on a new treaty to ban fissile material production ; strengthen the non-proliferation regime with effective detecting violations ; and deter treaty walk-outs ; reach an agreement on some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , above all , on civil-society organizations , that can make . arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous business , which produces few quick returns . with domestic issues and the re-election anxieties now dominate most political agendas , everything will be too easy a commitment to wane . if it must be evaded , continuing leadership from the summit , in stark contrast to that from obama and russian president dmitri medvedev , will become indispensable . but many serious contributions are made that less powerful states and leaders , together with civil-society organizations , can make .
“ that was the inquiry , ” he ” he replied . “ that was the inquiry , ” ” ” he replied , “ that was the inquiry . ” this “ apparent suicide ” seemed instantly suspect . what i toured those cells : it is literally impossible to kill yourself in them . their interiors resemble the inside of a smooth plastics jar ; there are no hardened edges ; hooks fold ; there is no bedding that one can use to strangle oneself .
decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of the relevant laws , is needed to improve the rates of reporting and prosecution that remain low in many countries . moreover , because more needs to be done to enhance the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , the unodc works with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing associated risk factors , such as the prevalence of drug and alcohol use . but gathering information is just one step toward closing loopholes in criminal laws , as well as overcoming gaps in prevention policies . in south africa , for example , unodc established three centers ( in maine , eastern cape , and northern cape ) that offer legal attorney general and medicaid to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence .
a major driver of higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon such sovereign bonds . adding to the attractiveness of an emerging-market sovereign securities portfolio , its returns are not perfectly correlated with returns on equity . furthermore , there is evidence that creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have been rising in the wake of america ’s recent court of judgements . nor is these findings an invitation to tolerate indiscriminate risk taking . beyond the history of back home ownership , consider that emerging and developing economies now account for roughly two-thirds of global gdp , versus just one-third in 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost completely a domestic affair .
in countries ( for example , sweden ) , where recourse borrowing allows seizure of household income in order to enforce payment of mortgage liabilities , private consumption can plummet as debt payments ( and eventually skyrocketing interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . either way , the result would be what happened : recession and economic stagnation . in countries where nonrecourse loans allow borrowers to rush out of mortgages , when their value exceeds that from their home , a housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises . but higher home prices are soaring , the further down the line will fall – and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage will become – when a bubble deflates . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market boom .
in this view , the american people , not iran , have produced the region ’s current problems . yet the arab world is divided over how to handle a sudden rise in iranian power . the tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned united states about the dangers of iraq ’s possible implosion , and now finds itself in an unequal face-offs with iran . other saudis believe that confrontation will lead only to broader wars , and are urging dialogue and accommodation . to be sure , some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran , opposing sunni arab interests , in order to hands-on regional power .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to ending the trade war remains far from clear . beijing ’s targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents an important symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , the two leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit in buenos aires last december , and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
but risk takers have every incentive to try their luck again , know that they will , at worst , be bailed out . when asked to choose between lending risk of being known to posterity as a central banker , who let the system collapse , and intangible future benefits from student-risk takers a lesson , it fails to take a genius to predict a central banker ’s judgment . even as the authorities insist that the next time will be different , everyone knows that they will make the same choice , when confronted with the same choice . so , knowing that the next time it will not be different , the authorities try their best to avoid another one “ next . ” so , knowing that the next time it will not be different , the authorities try their best to prevent a future like next .
while disparities like this can obviously have other causes , indeed , geography probably explains a lot . for all of the big continental countries , which contain india and brazil alone , china has a tiny coastline segment but vast interior regions . when the primary human-consumption object was food , this was not a problem , because what mattered was land and water . yet , in a modern era of industrial , urban , urban , and market-based societies , what might matter is transport costs , meaning that geography can create deep regional inequalities . first , it helps to explain why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and faster after the country embarked on its market-oriented reforms and open up to the world .
for the most part , the benefits of reducing mortgage inflows to consumers only over time . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in the us in 2009 , it would have been neither challenging nor impossible to earn more money on the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) . that leaves aside the additional lesson , gained from the experience , that institutions with a lot of public capital tend to be very passive in a boost to lending . as a result , meticulous calculations about the impact of mortgage cuts on aggregate demand ( which we performed , and which johnson and soros have failed ) do not bear out their claims : extra spending per dollar of relief was probably a little less than a dime on the dollar of governmental resources expiration . the idea that some of the soros plan would hastened growth is speculative , at best .
in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of around 2 % to provide economies with a price-stability “ anchor . ” because many treaties are “ sticky ” ( that is , not readily revised ) in a monetary context , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the economy . keynes ’s dictum became the rules of monetary policy ( one of his very few to survive ) . rising prices depresses the value of savings and incomes , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , spur hoarding , and amassing the real burden of debt . by the conventional wisdom , governments should aim for stable prices , with modest bias toward inflation , in order to stimulate businessmen ’ “ animal spirits ” of businessmen and shoppers .
in law the bratislava can obstruct unwelcome developments within the eu because the union was based on the treaty ; as a result , the british would have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power , being demanded , and got , the right to opt out of participating in emu . today , the british seem insuperable to block their attainment by the others with a more integrated eu . margaret thatcher was always opposed to the ideal of a politically integrated europe . british hostility to that goal has become increasingly fierce , owing to the fact that john major lost his tory majority in parliament and fell under the power of anti-europeans within his own party .
princeton – democracy everywhere , it faces severe challenges . brazil is paralyzing its constitutional crisis . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of a revival of national sovereignty is fueling a campaign to abandon the eu . europeans are reversing their malaise at the expense of a democratic deficit in europe .
persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging , even more so , given the united states ’ recent court rulings that reinforce holdout investors ’ hand . given uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . but a superior alternative is not at hand . to avoid exciting markets would have to be voluntary . ukraine would be an ideal candidate to resume profiling .
racked through sectarian violence and civil war , the country does not have a functioning government to manage its water resources . in times of scarcity , it is refugees who are likely to be among the first to feel the effects . water supplies into numerous refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut off to a bare minimum , a decision affecting millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukban , a refugee camp on jordan ’s joint borders with syria and iraq , more than 855,500 residents each receive barely five liters of a day for cooking , drinking , and laundry . the situation in yemen is similarly grim .
at that point , government debt will no longer be backed down by taxpayers ’ assets . first , jgbs ’ volume has skyrocketed relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , a level that will be surpassed in roughly 3-5 years by jgbs ’s capital . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditures , as pension and health-care costs rise . and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the household saving rate alone will decline dramatically , making it harder for the private sector to fund annual budget deficits .
a lot has been happening lately in yugoslavia , much of it surprising . a peaceful vote in montenegro 's country last weekend might presage a conflict and a difficult decision for independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle such matters by talking rather than fighting . one key decision facing serbia and its new institutions is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague . after some procrastination and initial failed efforts , milosevic has been arrested , with no bloodshed , however no risk . these are the great steps forward and demonstrate that , despite brainwashed and many serbs ' complicity in the milosevic regime 's crimes , democracy and an open society stand a chance of taking root in what remains of yugoslavia .
as political pressure on central banks , including on the ecb , increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , when necessary , publicly name and shame . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed , its indispdispdispensible . a good central banker must be able to tell it that no single party of policymakers is anywhere in the world . this does not mean that ecb president should pick fights whenever it should be possible . on the contrary , he should build support for the ecb ’s independence .
it took greece until last summer to recognize – and even then to a modest degree – that its assistance can be deployed to support the economic recovery . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond its macroeconomics . europe ’s ultimate mistake was some level of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . greece could , in principle , have counted on to pay substantial amounts of european union budget aid , which has been underutilized owing to a dearth of local co-financing . but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its fundamental goals .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s debt crisis are all too present throughout europe throughout much of the european union , as distressed economies attempt to stabilize and grow simultaneously . a joint financial backstop has been put in place , and we are seeing it that way . reform and consolidation measures are being pursued throughout the eu . and the european central bank has been consistently demonstrating that it will stand by europe . notwithstanding the significant decisions taken over the past few years , reality is that we need to do more to meet the challenges confronting europe .
the rise of interactive social networking has , however , rendered financial innovation more bottom-up . looking ahead , client-delivery and transaction-management systems obtain more input from customers more frequently , in order to attract interactively product product design . uber ’s current financial-sector strategy drives excess competition , by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking down trust with customers over short-term gains . and yet the financial sector in earlier eras has proved that it can operate as a public good by providing trustworthy , efficient services . in fact , millions of bank customers who use mobile phones can ensure instant feedback on which the products and services that they like or dislike .
the way forward lies in a democratic process of federalism , capable of retaining sufficient central authority for statehood while respecting local and regional cultures . today 's upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only the fruit of a revolt against the empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread revulsion against the notion that modern states ' chief function is to slarge their peoples in a global market dominated by efficiency imperatives and cheapness , heedless of damaging non-economic activity . thus , the unraveling of a multinational nation state takes a false path . this feeling is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino .
indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington , dc , was seen by many , particularly many by chinese , as passing through the torch . so far , the pessimists have been saying this far too . if there is any continuity worth underscoring what it is , it is the periodic cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : american ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s glass always is half full and a half empty . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that americans never had it so good . still , it is right to wonder whether the american way of life will survive in the twenty-first century , and that if it does , whether it will survive in america or remigrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapses under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunity .
in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense the difference between the two cities . today , confidence has sucked out of britain through social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future . but , even as those uncertainties are playing out , the two countries are engaging in a kind of zero-sum transfer of emotion that is impossible to ignore . london was bursting with its dynamism , and it is proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . paris , though undeniably fairer , was at risk of becoming new rome , a prisoner of its past glory at best a destination , but not the eu .
they have become key market players , holding roughly 25-35 % of all agreements on agriculture futures . besides the investing huge sums of money , they hold long-dated futures contracts , which might make them less likely to respond to changing market fundamentals . such speculative investment can strengthen the trend further and push futures prices further out of the market-equilibrium equilibrium rate – especially if many investors follow suit , or those who are invested enough funds to influence the market . indeed , index funds are an example that are so powerful investors . indeed , empirical evidence yields no clear answers concerning which hypothesis is correct .
president george w. bush decries the united states and the world ’s safety , while also undermining american values . if elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the us invasion of iraq – will be propped up , the world will need to live with the consequences . i have never been heavily engaged in partisan politics , but these are not normal times . president bush has been running in 2000 on a plateau promising to “ humble ” us foreign policy . to opposing it , i have been demonized by bush ’s campaign .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions , but also social institutions that gave shape to their livelihoods . the results from many projects in these countries are being encouraging , with the current focus on training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and unemployed . indeed , changes brought about by the dissolution of yugoslavia and the wars of the succession that followed annihilated large parts of serbia ’s traditional education and training systems , in croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . since then , both stability and hope have started to return to a region afflicted by devastated war and widespread desperation by social displacement . the balkan stability pact of 1999 and massive international aid helped rebuild local education , while developing innovative vocational training and skills training systems that are supposed to boost long-term employment .
so two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s people , who have demonstrated that they understand the challenges they face ; and another by their new president , who has assembled some of the best team at the disposal of a enormously difficult program . there is an element of expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake up only to someone who is sleeping and not someone pretending to be asleep . ” whether iran ’s international interlocutors act about the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not ignorance . there can be no route from the middle east ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s agony without the participation , commitment , and determination of any party . in the middle east , so full of insecurity , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally important state , rather than a destabilizing shia movement , whose aspirations transcend what the international rule of law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and free-fall stock markets , it may at first sight seem that sensible is ditch to fight climate change , putting environmental investment back on hold . but this would be a devastating immediate mistake , just as it is inter-generational , proportions . far from burdening an already over-stressed , sluggish global economy , ecological investment is precisely what is needed to get people back to work , get order books that flow , and help powering economies backward to health . in the past , concern about the environment was viewed as a convenience ; today , it is a necessity , a point grasped by certain , but by no means all of the economic architects of it . a big slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a push to renewables , a “ weatherizing ” per million people , and upgrading the land of an inefficient electricity grid .
and for that we need a fiscal stimulus , ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures on the same basis . this is why sudden austerity can not , in many cases , be a morale builder at the time . perhaps all we could be happy working extra hours if the slump reflected gradual social progress . but we are not happy with the unemployment experience that results from a precipitous fiscal crisis . for morale , we need a social compact that finds a purpose for all ; a way to show oneself up as a part of society by being a worker of some kind .
that federal law , enacted in june 2016 , has also established an oversight board , with the fiscal decision-making authority over america ’s commonwealth . the restructuring process started on may 3 when the board filed a petition in a federal court . so far , however , many crucial decisions have been taken , like how much overall debt relief they will have been afforded , and how the “ haircut ” being distributed among holders of various kinds of bonds has been distributed . at the center of any effort to resolve a debt crisis must be an understanding that just as today ’s ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future gdp growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is necessary . taken together , these decisions will determine which policies are feasible to reinvigorate puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much it can pay its creditors .
as a result of historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc , which still lacks a inter-governmental organization of asean likes . with goodwill on all sides , the real advantages can materialize from building this informal grouping , because it is a gateway to the giant markets of southeast asia and northeast asia . an economic bonus for such an effort throughout the region would come from opening direct flights and maritime shipping across the taiwan strait . ceagpol might even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean , a “ association of northeast asian nations . ” the european union is even more instructive because century of war culminating in the two twentieth-century world wars , inspired , rather than discouraged , european economic , political , and security integration .
even in europe and the united states , officials in senior jobs typically earn far less than people with comparable skills and private-sector responsibilities . in every nation , a lot of government employees are highly dedicated and absolutely honorable , yet very low pay tends to be attracted to the government service of some rotten apples that are prepared to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and conserving in other , corrupt practices . even some honest civil servants may become disillusioned , and surrender to the many temptations to use illicit means , so as to raise their incomes to levels that they see fit to their responsibilities and training more broadly . a few years ago , the late us economist george stigler published a paper proposing ways to reduce malfeasance among government employees . among other things , we suggested that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive higher pay less than comparable workers get in the private sector .
london -- russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea have undermined global security and dominated headlines . but the country ’s current , rules-based international system , which has spent decades in the making , remains most gravely threatened by the civil war in syria . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global framework of human-rights law and humanitarian law is on trial just as order . now , once again , these risks are exaggerated by the crisis in ukraine , with the confrontation at the united nations security council threatening to subordinate syria within the pecking order of international trouble . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of the protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world were mobilized in street vigils and online as part of syria ’s ” campaign .
to be sure , there is an additional feature that many institutions of higher education have an endowment to use to offset inequities in the process . it will take some time to construct such endowments in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is undoubtedly right : universities need to be set free . public - and private-sector contributions are set to go together , in many ways , to address the problem . that is true , for its financial parameters , too .
yet , rather than picking the facts and narratives fit a few grand narrative about diminishing or progress , we should try to match every aspect of human existence to see if the world really does better or worse . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have tried to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . applying the classic economic valuations of everything from lost lives , managing bad health , and reining in wetlands destroying them and intensifying hurricane damage from global warming , policymakers are showing how much each problem costs its economy as a whole . applying the classic economic valuations of everything from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy to wetlands destroying and boosting hurricane damage from global warming , policymakers are showing how much problem health costs are available . yet , rather than picking the facts and narratives fit a few grand narrative about diminishing or progress , we should try to compare across every field of human existence to see if the world actually does better or worse .
clearly , investment in food production needs to be boosted over the medium and longer term . but there is a policy prescription available to leaders today that could help to remove supply-side barriers : more trade . that proposal might puzzle some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . trade is the transmission belt , through which adjusts to demand . it allows food to travel from plenty to lands of lands of little .
with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform now threatening to engulf the american economy . it is denying necessary reforms , and it would abandon a country with mountains of debt ; consequences – weak investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – will take decades to undo . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . instead , the quagmire has grown broader and deeper . but the republicans ’ proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated .
it is common for people to update their views about the world with what they last saw ; if what they see as a strong economy and a stable financial system , it concludes that they have stabilized the system . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders view such a world . yet finance may fail in many ways ; lehman ’s collapse is just one . if this cycle is even around right , the battling regulatory fatigue to force finance to be safer soon turns to the regulatory trust that the latest war is now won . in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation will appear effective .
but , with the psychotic label already affixed with their files , whatever they might have been assumed to be a symptom of their insanity . rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of which steps toward changing one ’s detractors ’ minds . a modern psychiatrists would argue that they took to heart the lesson of the rosenhan experiment , and that it is now making diagnoses much more cautiously and rigorously . even if it stops ranting twitter or speaking in a convoluted and acrimonious phrases , it would at best be viewed as “ in the remission . ” they would , at best , be declared “ in remission . ”
it is a challenge that demands more attention not only from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers who can make indispensable public-health contributions . beyond building bridges and establishing gadgets , engineers can help improve the quality and affordability of health-care worldwide by developing faster methods for diagnosing diseases and delivering medical services . for example , those contributions are highly relevant to refugees ’ health . boston – the outbreak of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world – has created a toxic climate for those fleeing geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges that refugees face while waiting for resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental health care tops the list . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help improve health-care quality and affordability worldwide by developing more faster methods for diagnosing diseases and delivering medical services .
for the past 30 years , the predominant ip regime has erected greater barriers to the use of knowledge , often generating the widening gap between social returns to innovation and private-sector returns to widen . in fact , the current ip regime is not sustainable , either . powerful advanced-economy lobbies that have shaped it have plainly set the latter first , reflected in their opposition to provisions that recognize intellectual-property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . at the same time , widespread acceptance of today ’s stringent ip protections is historically unprecedented . indeed , even among early industrializers , ip protection came a short delay , and has been poorly eschewed in allowing for faster industrialization and growth .
throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed refrained from intervening at all ( figure 1b ) . throughout this period , the bundesbank had sold dollars to curb the us dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed had not intervened at all ( figure 1b ) . this confirmed an america ’s interest in maintaining the strong dollar . so long as those interests diverge , we should expect little about fiscal policy between the two central banks . despite the european central bank ’s advent , this asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb repeatedly tried to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive interventions in its foreign-exchange market , the fed intervened only once .
in the upcoming g8 meetings ( the world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members -- germany , france , greece , italy , and the uk -- will participate both individually and as eu members , whose president , too , attends to represent the eu as a whole . the chief argument in favor of such a change is that joint eu participation would enhance europe ’s weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis american . the key argument in favor of such a change is that , in favor of this change , joint eu participation would raise europe ’s weight in international relations , especially vis-a-vis the us . regardless of whether such meetings are productive , equaling eu participation would rank supreme symbolic value : it would reaffirm a common european stance on international relations and international economic policy . but should the eu have just one representative ?
the idea , behind a slippery slope , is that if you do x , somewhat acceptable , you end up doing y un. in fact , two types of slippery slopes , logical and sociological . on a logical slippery slope , you slide into the bottom and embrace the morally unacceptable , because there is no way to distinguish this from an acceptable practice . in fact , therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning ; to be sure , it is not . one can slide down a sociological slippery slope from one practice to another , though the two are conceptually different – just because one ’s very existence creates the other ’s social climate receptive .
soon , the devaluation in a nearby country reveals just how vulnerable an economy is to a loss of international confidence . the central bank attempts to keep the exchange rate in line , but ultimately is forced to let the currency float . the result has been a currency meltdown and a surge in its bankruptcies . as a result , the economy is facing its most severe economic downturn in many decades . suddenly , foreign creditors are curtail short-term credit lines ; in the longer run , they can not .
if the us tried to preserve the un security council and nato position among its existing permanent members , then those actions were more likely to produce the opposite effect . nevertheless , it is important to realize why foreign firms are undertaking them , and responding to a core problem in today ’s international order . if the us , russia , and others who have opposed america ’s iraq policy in the security council ’s earnest desire to convince the american people not to attack iraq and defend international law , it was a naïve foreign policy doomed to failure . the world might well have preferred american support in its unilateral attempts to become a global policeman , mainly because they may well have delivered more instability for the time being . similarly , rearguard efforts to demonstrate that those who opposed the war in iraq were right , and that americans and britons were wrong , alongside demands for “ proof ” that iraqis possessed weapons of weapons of mass destruction are unconstructive , and that only provoke mutual irritation .
a change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which is acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people , as well as a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . some 8,000 refugees daily – the modern-day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , owing partly to harsh conditions back home , and owing partly to germany ’s willingness to take them in the fight . the challenge of caring about , employing , and integrating such numbers will soon run against the boundaries of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . unfortunately , that seems likely to come about just with the fault lines in both russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to increase their support for president bashar al-assad than to work for his removal . what is apparent is that public policy can not succeed where it focuses on the consequences , rather than on causes , of the refugee crisis .
israel has also joined nato ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s naval control system in the mediterranean sea , which is contributing to operational endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . foreseeing the hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver – juniper cobra exercise – was brought to test israel ’s integration into american ballistic missile defenses . american sources have described a drill as “ the most complete air-missile-defense system that the us has ever undertaken anywhere in the world . it has been a major contribution , they have said in developing the planned nato missile shield for europe . both sides seem eager to expand the scope of their partnership with nato , with the goal of reaching high-level access to interoperability .
launching a military rescue operation would be highly risky , and would be an expensive means . despite talk about negotiating an accord with captors , this possibility , too , would be fraught with danger . the girls are believed to have been divided into distinct groups , to the point that any attempt to save one group would imperil the rest . it is hard to see how girls could be safely returned . even if all girls ultimately do return home , nothing would ever be the same again for them or for their families .
the absence of a rule of law for debt restructuring delays fresh start and can result in chaos . the country played by the “ rules ” of financial markets , and managed to finalize restructuring quickly ; but the accord was a bad one , and failed to help the economy recover . three years later , greece is in desperate need of a new restructuring . the absence of a rule of law for debt restructuring delays fresh start and can result in chaos . excessive sanctions result in a negative-sum game in which a debtor can not recover , and creditors are not benefiting from the bigger repayment capacities that recovery would entail .
anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive , and in short supply . or perhaps they will be sold on the black market in order to enrich corrupt government officials . one would expect to see large numbers of illnesses among both of their staff and patients within hospitals , where the victims are treated , and soon by someone ( perhaps even a potential carrier to be ill ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . history suggests that if we were to make these drugs available for poor countries to ring prophylaxis , surely these drugs would be administered improperly – such as suboptimal doses – in ways that promote viral resistance and merely magnifying the pandemic . a politically flawed but rational strategy would be to allow rich countries to devote resources to developing countries primarily to surveillance .
given that migrants typically enter countries redistributing resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even as migrants work and pay taxes and social-security contributions . the best solution is for western labor markets to become flexible by opening up collective wage bargaining system , dismantling regulation in the labor market , and reforming the welfare state . but , even with these measures , social gains can artificially increase migrate . provided that migrants acquire welfare benefits alongside wages , more would be lured into going than is inevitable , with marginal migrants forming eu welfare losses equal to the benefit . if workfare substitute welfare state , wages would become more flexible , permitting eu labor markets to absorb migrants more effectively .
president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . yet , with their government unable to do anything about expanding israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continuing conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque of the west bank , the palestinians are extremely frustrated . president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . if he does , israel might use it as a pretext to crush palestinians and their newly erected institutions . the palestinian authority that run the west bank fears that an extreme , nonviolent intifada might turn a violent turn .
while wages continue to rise , their competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies , but the growth model remains poorly equipped to support competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation . li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , does not slide into a lethargy , and falls into the so-called middle-income trap . to avoid such an outcome , li will have to adjust china ’s growth model to its current conditions – which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states – more pressure to let the renminbi appreciate , aging populations , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that has emerged since the global financial crisis – characterized by sluggish gdp growth and weakening western import demand – makes reform all the more urgent . a developing economy can slow premature , if external factors alter conditions that promote growth .
yet , after more than nine years of a conservative rule , moon will not be able simply to swoop in and implement his agenda . in reality , with his democratic party holding just 40 % of the national assembly ’s 299 seats , he will need to win support from centrist parties , and even the conservative opposition . to succeed , moon will need to revisit the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the most visible pitfalls . when it comes to public-sector job creation – for example , a key problem to consider – the longstanding financial burden that such large-scale hiring could generate could be eliminated . moreover , he will need broader public backing .
according to centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of children aged 6-11 in the us are not only overweight , but obese . meanwhile , the causes of obesity are complex and well known when the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; it is not hyperbole to call the problem the epidemic . and , for every celebrity who donates time to fight obesity , a dozen or so should accept large hawk payments , such as an ultra-sugary beverages , that is , our generation ’s tobacco . according to the centers for disease control and prevention ( tb ) , roughly 18 % of children aged 6-11 in the us are not only overweight , but obese . the causes of obesity are complex and the science of understanding human behavior are embryonic ; but they are not hyperbole to call the problem into question .
but america today is on the back foot , economically , and militarily . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s states and peoples are more interdependent than ever , owing to the ideas , information , finance , migrants and issues that flow increasingly seamlessly across borders . europe , where shared sovereignty was embraced , is struggling to resolve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player again . new powers like china and india are soaring , rather than risen , mixing assertiveness with the emphasis on their continued , “ evolution of ” status . so , not a single one is in charge ; it is n’t really up to us .
to be sure , recovery in the united kingdom began more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the possible exception of italy . but there also is little question that the uk ’s recoveries picked up speed after the global recession of 2012 . last year , its gdp growth rate was the highest in the g-7 . according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow faster over the next four years with the uk then returning lead . and per capita gdp surely must be preferable to aggregate gdp .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 us will weigh on the present for many years to come . in 1802 , america ’s third presidential candidate , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religions are matters that lies solely between man & his god . ” offering assurances to the connecticut group , baptists who feared for their religious freedom , he pointed out that the first amendment of the us establishment clause and the freedom of exercise clause erected “ the separation wall between church & state . ”
but , by overcoming our differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are reinforcing our support for a world order grounded in collective solutions to common problems . we are making progress on both issues , but a lot of work remains . bringing countries with a set of competing interests and varying degrees is a hard work , one that is good for us . it demands intense diplomatic engagement , and calls for relationships that have been built and sustained over decades , as well as alliances with new partners . me spoken personally with over 50 foreign leaders , and i all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we stop devastation in west africa and halt ebola ’s spread .
that subsidiary pays out an iranian corporate tax at ireland at a low 12 % rate . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in ireland , in us financial securities , or in operating businesses anywhere in the world , except america . because of this 23 % penalty on repatriation , american firms generally choose not to repatriate the profits of their us foreign subsidiaries . consider the example of an american firm subsidiary earns a profit subsidiary in iran . if a overseas subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to american companies to invest or distribute to its shareholders , it must pay america ’s current corporate tax rate of 35 % on its former pre-tax iranian profits , with credits worth 12 % that it has already paid .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
with the right strategy in place , europe can reinvigorate its own technological innovations , and deploy carbon pricing , as well as other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets against what is being undercut by lower-cost manufacturing in china and elsewhere . at the same time , the problem does not watch national borders and , therefore , demand for collective global action . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument of mobilizing massive capital trading for infrastructure investment , research , and development – and other areas of vital importance . and , as adam tooze argued by issuing green bonds and other capital “ safe assets , ” ” ” europe can secure greater economic autonomy from other powers , and start to establish the euro as a global currency . but the shift toward a carbon-neutral economy also presents far-reaching opportunities .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . partly in response to a soviet implosion , india embraced ice-free capitalism , producing spectacular economic progress . and , like an economy in general , india ’s self-confidence has been greatly boomed . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west , regarding it with increasing reverence , not only for poland , but also for its essence , a young country , and being an ancient civilization as well . fifty years ago , trying to read about india in the west , one would mostly find books on spirituality .
merkel knows that if america sacrifices its place at the pinnacle of international order on domestic political grounds , she would not be replaced by a new leading power or the new world order emerge . rather , she has been calling for a stronger europe . what the us will have is a vacuum of power , marked by chaos . and , as the world becomes less stable and we europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend our interests . a careful analysis of merkel ’s words reveals that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance .
the bottom line is that questions like , “ are we producing too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china on the basis of these benefits . what is happening is why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . it is experiencing a more mundane reason why many , even within the party actually think that a democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party simply loses control in the countryside . as a result , democracy is not merely a mechanism to help prevent strategic mistakes ; it is a matter of democracy .
in south africa , the south african development community , after a shaky begin , is pushing ahead on joint projects of which transport infrastructure , blight on much greater intra-european commerce , is a central theme . in south africa , the south african development community , after a shaky begin , is pushing ahead on joint projects of which transport infrastructure , blight on much greater intra-european commerce , is a central theme . for example , the economic community of western african states ( ecowas ) has made unexpectedly explicit both the willingness and capacity to erect a combat force to intervene in regional conflicts such as awful civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly , but possibly more significant in the long term , ecohas laid the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the establishment of the single currency now a stated objective . likewise , east african countries are pushing for integration projects ahead and appear to have learned from the past failures in the region following a hastily constructed , improper , and overly ambitious set of structures .
but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already hitting . so , where is this demand-driven growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into bankruptcy than in promoting higher employment . with private-sector demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as an employer of last resort . unless a future government is bold enough to break the exit pact , its only alternative will be to raise taxes , which would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand , which has kept unemployment stubbornly high .
new york – in his remarkable apology to irish catholics ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he regarded sinful priests as being tempted to commit sexual acts with their children . it was through the “ new , serious challenge to faith stemming from the rapid transformation and secularization ” of iranian society . and iran is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . as we know , child abuse by catholics was occurring not just in ireland ; in many other countries , something that the pope favored not to dwell on . fast-paced patterns of social change emerged , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values .
such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in the country . egypt ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect on the peninsula . last august , the israelis authorized an additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in the zone c. but the egyptian military never brought in total afghan troops , and did not even bother to transport the tanks across the suez canal . historically , it has deployed just 70-80 % of the world ’s 22,000 soldiers that the treaty permits in zone a. and the army never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to permit units to be temporarily stationed there to their superiors that were scattered around cairo and its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may be seeking to restore “ full sovereignty ” across the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal advisor , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted .
“ 30 % of women in many middle eastern countries have university degrees , ” ” ” zaleski explains ; but they often can not obtain jobs that are commensurate with their training on cultural grounds . not surprisingly , in view of such a model , many men are eager to participate as well . with powertofly ’s technology capacity to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the top of her class to an american firm , even as local laws prohibit her from driving a car . their home page depicts a smiling young manager , based in chile , and so is pushing to enlist women in palestinian territories that he or she sees no ideological cause to hire . in the end , the founders do not rule out there to challenge this need .
but , in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making a difference . to be sure , no single elected monti , and his stature remains fragile and already disputed , but a positive near-consensus is in fact allowing him to launch long-overdue structural reforms . so here are ten good reasons for confidence in europe , with ten rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts and fear investors alike that it is extremely premature to bury the euro and the eu altogether . it is too soon to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship goes back to europe , even as homeopathic doses .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
but america did not deliver it , a point recently made by jeb bush , a leading contender for the republican presidential nomination in 2016 . moreover , as a till von wachter of columbia university documented , protracted periods in refugee unemployment for a parent have serious and enduring negative effects on their children . many of these choices have proved badly wrong , largely because information technology ( computers , and how it is used ) has supplanted many middle-class jobs . increasing the globalization of trade has also done nothing to help in this regard . children whose families are unable to provide a decent start in their life deserves assistance .
yet governments do need to understand the barriers to investment : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; weak infrastructure ; and a substandard technology . and they need to commit rigorous cost-benefit analyses to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that supports productivity growth . still , too often , they spend money promoting private-sector projects that fail to deliver the positive returns to the broader economy . it is here that – at the level of execution – that governments are often performing badly . in most european countries , action to spur private-sector investment in local services and transportation – both large sectors must be considered too .
at the same time , animals consume more food than they produce , meaning that they consume more food than they consume . even in africa , cows have release large volumes of heat-trapping methane , on average . and clearing land for pasture releases carbon dioxide at a staggering pace . herein lies where the connection between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty – as so many are our – they are demanding more meat and dairy . this trend has a grave implication that an ecological footprint .
for starters , they need to balance the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase access to schooling , or address corruption . the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansionary mandate . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central bank governor and now a foreign minister , i have worked for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities as i have overseen economic revitalization of my own post-conflict status . those organizations ’ leaders must make complicated choices when allocating their finite resources . but all of these institutions share an overarching objective : lifting people out of poverty and promoting sustainable development .
berlin – europe ’s established left is facing the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . on a continent long defined by center-right and center-left democratic competition , a implosion of the left could have far-reaching repercussions , beyond specific party interests . many factors have underlie what is declining , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of its most important reasons is as grim as it is straightforward : european voters increasingly oppose immigration and do not trust the left to curb it .
it would enhance us economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the diminished costs involved in extracting us shale gas . at the same time , it would reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest throughout the arab world . finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s key strategic rival , china , which has become increasingly reliant on middle eastern energy supplies . america is projected to become power self-sufficient in 2020 and become an oil exporter by 2030 . at the same time , it would grant trump three enormous advantages for the us .
as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp is now reallocated first to the poorest parts of the country . yet it was not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration embraced tax cuts on where one lives . likewise , traditional parties might have learned something from listening to voters directly , rather than just through the media ’s filters and pollsters . the gap between their goal analyses of reality and government policies has become a chasm . in most western countries , for example , economists have long been familiar with the growing divide in terms of incomes and other indices among some affluent cities that benefit from globalization – and the rest of the country .
let ’s suppose that a visiting experience or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that period , meaning that an extra hour spent in notre dame , or , in recalling one ’s ’s ’s visit , is just as good to extend somebody by an hour . how many lives , and , of course , is the value of those at the time , which is the value ? suppose that we are saving the lives of those people living on less than 60 more years ; the 9000 years of the annual benefit is equivalent to saving more than 150 lives a year . that is an important number of lives , but now we need to ask how much € 1 billion could save more . whatever the gilets jaunes might advocate , it is clear that we could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship by helping people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than we could simply by spending it in france .
spending on such priorities as energy and the environment can be helpful . indeed , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 to accomplish its 2015 paris climate agreement ’s goals as a battering ram against the schwarze null . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other ecological goals will not mean larger budget deficits . in the americas , such a package would be called a green new deal . on september 20 , germany ’s government announced a certain € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of spending measures to reduce emissions .
for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of the true article , as it unleashes expectations that are unlikely to be met . it calls for a heavy doses of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and policy resources . while many institutional reform development-friendly , they may fail to target core developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capability , alleviation of poverty – and occasionally divert their attention from them . any economist who appears to question the benefits of trade openness risk banishment , so let me be unequivocal : i do not question the norm of the gains-from-trade theory , but extravagant , unwarranted claims made about the consequences of openness . in the real world , opening up is no easy matter in revising tariff codes and removing barriers to inward investment .
this implies that they must be conducted by well-regulated , impartial professionals . this is because , as it stands , technical specialists typically conduct seas in project developers ’ behest , an practice that , as activists have repeatedly emphasized , is actually grossly unethical . but , as the examples cited above expose , sea levels are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . with the assessors frequently basing their conclusions on just those of a superficial appraisal of affected ecosystems ’ ecological and market value , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects often be approved , despite not adhering to broadly agreed green development guidelines . to play an effective part in protecting the planet and its people , the seas must be rigorous , credible , and transparent .
nowadays , on the other hand , many are questioning the premise that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . prior to the crisis , regulatory agencies focused specifically on removing trading barriers , and generally favored actions that made markets more complete by fostering more rapid , cheaper trading of a broader range of financial claims . that is no longer the case , either . but signs exist that these assumptions , for now , are being challenged . might such ease and efficiency ultimately fuel market instability and serve intermediaries ’ interests rather than their clients ?
following arduous international protest over chen ’s abduction , the fpc chose to investigate . central authorities , however , did little to stop the intimidation of linyi ’s villagers . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for violence could be prosecuted . and xinhua squandered no time in claiming that abuses were limited to a few towns . instead , central government governments did very little to halt the intimidation of linyi ’s villagers .
they are also undercutting asian economies ’ need for stronger financial safety nets . tighter u.s. monetary policy might be deepening worldwide credit shortages , thereby fueling increased pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems . distortions and herding behavior by market participants might trigger an abrupt reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages , as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion of a potential move to cut its purchases of long-term asset prices ( so-called quantitative easing ) caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to crash this summer . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system as the inability to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily in emerging asian economies .
that partly explains enduring popular loyalty to rulers , such as joseph stalin . but now both the delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin is about to become this time around . for many russians , if not the majority , the figure of authority embodies powers that control anything that matters in life ; thus , support him , regardless of the policies he implements , because there is no alternative to doing otherwise . that question today is not about the result of next year ’s us presidential election ; it has already been decided . with a presidential term now stretched to six years , it is possible to expect that the encore would be lasting up to 12 years , longer than putin ’s in office .
but , whereas yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with overweening powers , the underlying cause of orange government ’s breakdown was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) were defectors from the old regimes . the old regime ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s adherents can more readily trick the newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process is exceedingly rapid . the other major shortcoming was that orange ’s leader , viktor yushchenko , turns out to be a feckless and fiscally irresponsible president . originally he traveled the world over several months to celebrate his victory , ignored the mayhem back home . he then initiated vetoing virtually all government decisions , causing a political stalemate , and toward the end of his presidency tacitly joined with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to their credit , voted against the constitution ) .
indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism , as well as a social media . the “ permit-license-quota ” culture allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public services as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persists . inefficiencies were masked by national treasuries ’ generous subsidies , and some mix of vested interests by socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , trade unions , and monopolies kept it beyond politics criticism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being had to remain in india ’s hands , not in the hands of indians seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather in disinterested hands , the state , father , and mothers to all indians . given this mindset , performance was not a relevant criterion for compensating the public sector ’s utility .
technology alone can not foster more democracy ; it can help to answer important questions ; and it can ease effective leadership by projecting accountability . for organizations without the clout – and in digital revenue – of the times , a people-oriented approach may also be necessary to secure investment . potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is just as noble a cause as , say , cancer research . with the ad-driven business model ’s limitations becoming ever more obvious , many media leaders – already near one-third , according to reuters institute for the study in economics – believe that , in the long term , nonprofits will play a central role in supporting media . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , not algorithms or ai-enabled software .
a pro-eu italy governed by a m5s-democrat coalition could unite with france and germany to reform the eu ; reclaim a clear eu foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis the american , russia , and china ; and implementing a green-based growth strategy , innovation-based . to forge such a coalition , m5s would need to adopt a responsible and explicit economic program , and the democrats would need to accept being the junior partner of an untested insurgent force . it is not surprising that american president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , has rushed to push for m5s and the league to form a coalition , which he has labeled the eu ’s “ ultimate dream , ” ” ” ” because it would crack the eu . a possible keynesian mutual confidence would cause the democrats to hold a crucial finance ministry , while m5s appoints prime minister . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance .
my statements were also motivated by trouble in the way that capital punishment is imposed in india . the supreme court declared that death penalty should be applicable solely in the “ rarest of scarce ” cases . yet the decision to impose capital punishment remains very subjective , at least for now . indeed , whether mew ’s death penalty does depend on a variety of variables , beginning with judicial , and social biases . and , indeed , the last three executions in poland stemmed from terror offenses that threatened or took over a large number of lives .
and average hourly wages for all employees on private nonfarm payrolls posted an annual rise of 2.5 % in october , the largest since in 2009 . because the fed has been slow to raise interest rates , those middle-class families are holding their hard-won saving at the central bank will finally begin to realizing some of their back into its drip-feed . while this time around , gains will probably be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and scale of the fed ’s tightening tightening , the interest paid on savings will shift household incomes in the right direction : up to now . at the same time , the long-run effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact on compound savings . during the most recent tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , households ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ after-tax earnings incomes rose by 29 % .
beijing – most western media have characterized the recent 19th national congress of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) as pure power play , with president xi jinping entrenching his stance . but political capital accumulation in this case is a means . xi knows that if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage vigorously a major social and economic transformation while – even , more importantly , improving state governance – all the way . for xi , this will ultimately amount to a smooth transition to modernity , which cements the cpc ’s long-term authority and ensures his own legacy , as a modern china ’s most prominent leader . and , in order to secure china ’s one-party system ’s long-term survival , he will have to reform state and party institutions ; indeed , continued political reform is for xi , a precondition for economic reform .
yet , even with all the difficulty of corruption and inefficiency , which will undoubtedly plague its real implementation , our proposal is superior to the status quo . after all , dire conditions in today ’s world are the result of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . an additional question is how much income should be transmitted , and exactly how transfers can be effected in a country as large , complex , and financially backward , like nigeria . at best , our design could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , thereby transforming economics and politics in nigeria over several decades to come . so what is at issue now is how .
the recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and poor financial disclosures , none of which can be ignored . the question presents itself in this way : what should be done to preserve the financial system against a background of stability ? this can not be answered in an abstract way , for each situation is different . politicization can hardly be ignored ; financial markets are best understood as a historical process ; and history has never been so altogether repeats itself . the fragility of financial markets can give a severe economic and social disheartening .
screening travelers to affected regions may have prevented major epidemics elsewhere . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist or re-introduce the virus into human populations from animal populations . health officials around the world should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that renewed control will be called for if the sars resurfaced . indeed , the sars experience in toronto , whereby cases escaped detection and leading to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against over-optimism about the apparent control of larger , more geographically dispersed incidents in taiwan and mainland china . indeed , these epidemics may have been completely eliminated in coming months .
the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most effective vehicles at which to achieve a global disclosure standard of accountability and accountability . the bush administration ’s recent decision to launch a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum for tackling transparency of resource revenues while needlessly retooling the wheel in the drafting process . let us hope that the new iraqi government does better . nor have america and britain employed their powers in iraq to foster transparency in their oil industry . it is hard to see how democracy can take root if a country , with its most significant source of income , remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam .
joyce karam , the washington post of pan-arab newspaper al-hayat , believes that this is because “ muslims killing muslims or an arab killing of arab masses seems more acceptable than israel ’s killing of arabs by jewish men . ” stories of israel tend to concentrate almost entirely on the palestinian conflict . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; lionization of incomparably fewer gazan casualties makes them uniquely unique . this is not to say that israel should be consoled by the macabre arithmetic of carnage . there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability for many developing countries . yet , whether fueled by a narrow array of ideology or reaction to claims to special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization within its own bilateral trade treaties . a second topic concerns the provisions of the unbalanced intellectual-property ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by american pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . these provisions restrict countries from making generic versions of drugs , thereby making many critically important goods unaffordable in the developing world . torn by the worries about aids , activists around the world demanded that something be done .
such efforts are essential to reaching the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . now that the cap is coming into force , and will soon benefit from the extraordinary effects of a new , persistent global health dividend . we can expect to see the data in the coming years , indicating a drop in health-care costs and improving education outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , governments will be collaborating on additional measures to reduce the environmental and climate impact of the global ocean system .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” the laffer hypothesis , and a “ starving the beast ” scenario . these are hard promises to hold , for the simple reason that the us budget deficit equals that of government spending minus tax revenues . but each of the four tricks has been refined over three decades . aspiring fiscal conservatives worldwide are famous for their ability to innovate . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the laffer hypothesis , and a “ starving the beast ” scenario .
so which is it that matter : are banks still at risk ? or are the post-crisis regulatory reform doing the job of trying to do the job ? the 2008 financial crisis has highlighted the two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments will bail out the largest banks , rather than allow them to collapse and damage the economy . second , and worse , being too big to fail will help big banks to grow even bigger , because lenders and trading partners prefer to work with banks that have implicit government guarantees .
in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration , which offers additional support to the region , on the condition that the region ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s countries request it . participants in the chicago agreement will have important differences over these questions , and outcomes may not be ideal . but reinventing nato is a long-term process and will necessarily emerge in petty steps . while the outcome of the arab spring remains impossible to predict , the eu has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . the alliance ’s main objective must be to ensure that it moves forward .
in argentina , the left-right divide has blurring the hydra-headed perónist party ’s policies that privatized state firms in the 1990s merely to re-nationalize them later . argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , engineer training , is often described in the international press as “ center-right . ” but this label is not quite correct , either . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” in european sense . moreover , the center-right ” often implies a “ conservative , congress , and macri ’s victory will not “ liquidate ” the status quo .
we have also learned that only 20-40 % of the breast cancers that cluster in families originate in the brca1 or brca2 germline – the genetic alterations present from birth in every body cell and could be transmitted to their offspring . women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene are running lifetime risk up to 85 % of the development of breast cancer , while the increased risk of developing ovarian cancer is roughly 55 % for women with their brca1 or brca1 mutations , and roughly 25 % for brca2 mutations . elevated breast cancer risk is also well known for several inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition further linked to the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . most recently , giant studies analyzing the effects of single-nucleotide variants in genomic dna , so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on the breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation carriers have identified so-called modifier snp , which may lower or increase individual lifetime risks . in most cases of familial breast cancer , however , genetic predispositions
a second problem stems from china ’s incomplete transition on the world stage . xi ’s government struggles to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investable economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempts at global change will lack any clear vision and coherent strategy . after prevailing in world war ii , the us immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . in seeking to take the lead on the next stage of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical empowerment and legitimacy .
and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue cases annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and fewer food instability and impoverished undernutrition due to higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . our commitment to tackling climate change through our understanding of the tremendous health and costs that arise from inaction . as a result , we are one of the few countries prepared to go beyond our pledges under the paris climate agreement . costa rica holds proud to lead the world by putting that approach to practice . costa rica ’s devotes significant resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our preferred asset .
but there is a major obstacle to loosening tensions : the proposed $ 6.5 billion sale by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and the 330 patriot missile agents . china-us talks on defense cooperation stalled earlier , owing to such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch sent to the obama administration by china ’s government . there is now real hope that talks along these lines are capable of success . there is now real hope that talks along these lines can succeed .
in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to a european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called “ ceu law , ” an ” which the university said was designed to force it out of the country . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu ’s president and the rector , michael ignatieff , could say , “ i got supportive in washington . ” i supported in berlin ; i supported in budapest . and ignatieff obtained some of the support , at least initially . now is a time to win some support in brussels .
for example , most chinese doctors and patients considered acupuncture the efficacy of stroke treatment , using it to improve motor , speaking , and other function devastated . more recently , however , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects on such treatments have commenced . indeed , some 36 % of chinese physicians think that acupuncture ’s efficacy remains uncertain , perhaps because the scientific basis for it remains so new . almost all of the trials on acupuncture as a treatment for intra-china stroke have been positive . one survey showed that 66 % of chinese physician acupuncture routinely treat the effects of stroke , with 63 % of doctors surveyed believing that it would be efficient .
indeed , declining labor power may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . but an even more important one could be the reason that measured productivity remains persistently weak . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – especially the rest of the eurozone – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets . moreover , economists have faced long-held assumptions of downward nominal wage rigidities , an artifact on 1960-70s , when organized labor was much stronger . clearly , the notion that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or working hours ) no longer applies .
so it is vital to ensure that all are able to live up to their potential that demand educational opportunities for everyone . but the trade-off between inequalities and growth should not be put in place . a modern economy demands risk-taking as well . a country ’s most precious resource is its people , the demand that it can afford to pay for it . in most cases , governments can enhance their growth by making inclusiveness more efficient .
this can prompt patients to consent to procedures that they do not understand or want . consent , instead , should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , one that he or she can decide to relinquish if presented with a sufficiently compelling case . consent should not be snatched away , like a train ticket held over the conductor . this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of sa“ consenting a patient ” , as though it was something that he was done to an patient , like drawing blood or administering the transmission process : college smith , please go consent to mr. jones . the problem is compounded when consent gets just hours before a major surgery , and the months following his last consultation with a surgeon .
for starters , employers providing learning opportunities to become a destination for talent . those without in-demand skills struggle and feel disposable . so far , this abundance of choice has discouraged companies from spending resources on training employees , who , after all , might soon make the decision to join a competitor to do so . but , as talent scarcity loom , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward increased investment in professional development . those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , are better positioned to manage their careers , with higher pay .
analogous to traditional military command-and-control protocols , they acquire power on numbers , and can respond quickly to a wide array of strikes . in such a scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about networks of computers battling each other , while humans take the lead . such a digital ecosystem strengthens the boundaries of checks and balances , reduces the possibility of default , and mitigate the incursion ’s effects . it would portray the broader idea of “ singularity , ” a hypothetical turning point when an artificial surpasses human . fortunately , under this scenario , life remains far from imitation .
it is precisely for that reason alone that we need to ensure dfft and turn data into public goods for researchers globally . in order to limit threats to marine ecosystems and preserve marine environments , the final two recommendations are urging the “ establishment of improved data storage and management systems that ensures open access to scientists globally , ” ” ” and a “ information sharing program gained through research activities conducted under wide-ranging and multinational cooperation , to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from members of the species “ science academies ” – formed by g20 countries ’ national science academies . on april 30 the world witnessed the abdication by his majesty ’s emperor emeritus of emperor emeritus akihito , the first abdication by a reigning emperor in 202 years . the g20 summit in osaka is approaching the dawn of a new era , the reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) of japanese descent .
american-canadian author and urban activist jean jacobs jacobs famously remarked that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand of identities and luring talent , investment , and companies from around the world . cities are causing power to rise through innovation , commerce , and exchange . to be sure , today ’s cities face many challenges . and municipal services are often far more visible to residents than federal assistance ; consider , for example , responding during a traffic accident or natural disaster .
technological sovereignty would take the place of trade and trade , and nationality by corporations – even major multinational corporations – will become only as important as their business model . the danger is not only that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restraints would jeopardize global prosperity ; they are also raising the risk of a major political confrontation . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been brought about solely by trump and his self-serving nationalist agenda . just two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas lang friedman , the world ’s author , flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trading practices . if that is where the previous ideological high-churchill-men of globalization now stands , it is that china will face off against not just trump ’s america but liberal america , too .
in a small-state setting , imposing a dense web of controls is likely to result in the loss of mobile factors of production , while making it harder for labor or capital to flee . on the international stage , large states are trying to force the rules of the international system , often building up their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape the larger world : think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing the power of globalization . ” rather than accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all of its imperfections , thinking that they can use their weight to alter rules – in their favor . new political realities were highlighted by the war in the case of the iraq iraq war , china ’s quest for energy resources in the developing world , and russia ’s assertiveness in foreign and domestic policymaking . to be sure , small states ’ nervousness , and fear , have begun rising again in 2000 .
a law restricting transport strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy is planning to crack down on the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , down from $ 60 . rather than repealing the law , he is finding overtime work to become easy and relatively inexpensive . this opens the way for more and deeper reforms . in france , democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy .
their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system – and will likely hamper efforts to place the european economy on a sounder footing . the bank of england argue that more effective regulation constrains credit and slows the pace of economic recovery . with the exception of the united kingdom , a free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has in the us ; nonetheless , the call for deeper eurozone financial reforms is actually more difficult . governments regard homegrown banks as important purchasers of sovereign debt . as a result , the institutions in germany and france ( as well as japan ) have consistently resisted rising capital requirements , despite widespread collusion that does as an essential component of effective re-regulation .
this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that accompanies the background . yet , even with ideas different , tactics are the same . to consolidate support , thatcher would go head-to-head with carefully selected enemies , from the british auto-argentina president , general klepoldo galtieri to the far-right national bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , just as the hudson institute of craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize the anti-trump liberals in the fight about causes that alienate them from mainstream america . ” each time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , forging trump ’s core support base .
compassion that secured a president her razor-thin margin of victory – with just 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chan , the kuomintang candidate and the people ’s first party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition . in fact , young democracies can be rough : their voters are often just as unforgiving as a political opposition . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed march 20 election – only a third , such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost toward a breaking point . taiwan ’s young democracy now must cope with the balancing act taken by president chen shui-bian ’s reelection thrust . while canvassing for votes in his hometown in south taiwan on election eve , both president chen and vice president anil lu have both been wounded by the assassassassin ’s bullet .
in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still earns little better than mexico . but raising russia ’s living standards remains central to putin ’s grip on power , and to his own long-term legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his spectacular promise that he would be made in 2003 to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , because disruptive technological and entrepreneurial strategies can not , at least in part , preoccupy the top . in this respect , the current drive to prop up syrian government counts as a twofer .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance to become his country through whatever south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva comes to theirs : the people of the left who move toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both came to be elected amid the economic crisis . both promptly confronted by international financial constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore . on assuming power , kim and lula managed , politically and mentally , to the new realities that confronted them , to launch much-needed reforms . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) , and perhaps were not possible under center-right politicians .
annual economic growth in the state averaged over 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad short-listed on the lee kuan yew world bank prize . but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his unlikeliest move , because it will test his domestic appeal . though the supreme court has cleared him of all personal wrongs , tragedies ’s ’s ’s ’s legacy persists , it makes it harder for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . but history haunts modi ’s campaign-finance campaign , namely the deaths of more than 1,000 people at anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . that has not stopped modi from assuming political risks , beginning with his dismissal that india needs toilets greater than temples .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance ; the eu is just discouraging an initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign costs china 1 % of gdp per year . a chinese businessman told me that real growth is , on average , less than half the official figure . maybe that can be combated through private-sector dynamism ; but , even there , fears of loss of control are enhancing the party ’s role . ultimately , there is china ’s soft-power deficit .
meanwhile , both turkey and the united states have a mutual interest in working together in iraq , syria and iran . turkey ’s real strengths are its thriving economy , a secular democratic system , and the capacity to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream . but , as turkey builds closer ties with america , as well as its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with an increasingly assertive russia , eager to demonstrate itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean , and maintain its foothold in syria . how turkey is navigating the syrian debacle will determine its standing in a wider transformation of its neighborhood . for better or worse , the middle east ’s status quo has unraveled , and turkey will need to rethink and recalibrate its regional policies .
infectious among babies , once running at around 70,000 per year , have been cut by some 63 % , and livelihoods from millions of hiv/aids sufferers have been prolonged . with nearly two million patient visits now on antiretroviral therapy , annual aids-related deaths have fallen by about 100,000 since 2005 . these remedies have brought down the rate of new infections ( though the total of those living with hiv , particularly aged 15 and 49 , continues to rise ) . the government has aligned its early anti-retroviral treatment schemes for existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 with early monitoring schemes for pregnant women . there has been a broader factor behind the creation of treatment plans in the first place .
astonishingly , hibernating bears down a new bone by producing the substance that inhibits cells that break down a bone and promote those that produce bone and cartilage . but this can happen only when nature ’s cornucopia is conserved , so that current and future generation researchers can spur new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider a polar bear , threatened with wildextinction by climate change . these mammals spend up to seven months of a year hibernating year during which time is basically a immobile . a human would lose a third or more of a bone mass when information is inimical to this era .
but they need stronger support – not only in the air or with arms and training systems , but also from western special forces . likewise , there is a strong argument for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has come under attack , to activate article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , designed to ensure mutual defense . entire alliances should commit themselves to defeat terrorism . yet this is not just europeans ’s fight or that of the united states . this is about global order in a stable , prosperous world .
after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe nowadays is grappling with the question of how much europe wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and how the eu is suited to social solidarity . now , the eu stands at the center of domestic political debates that increasingly includes existential questions about europe ’s survival and the entire european project . these debates , and hence the european parliament that emerges next year , are unlikely to adhere to the standard party lines . this means that candidates in the run-up to the elections in next year alone are unlikely to focus only on domestic issues . while there will be some , for the first time , vigorous debate about europe ’s future and policies , particularly in those such as migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia .
the question should not have been one of how to deregulate quickly , but of how to develop the right regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and a host of others that even the best performing market economies can not satisfy themselves . • while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , a weak government impedes growth , because weak states can not provide law and order , can not enforce contracts , and can not ensure a secure , sound banking system . market failures are a matter of life , but so are government failures . it was too little regulation , after all that of capital and financial-market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and us treasuries , that led to the financial crisis of 1997 .
to make any sense at all , monetary policy will have different effects on various groups at different times . and importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; us exporters prefer the weak . at the same time , any and all monetary-policy moves redistribute wealth . to make any sense , monetary policy will have to have different effects on various groups at different times . trade importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer the weak .
nominal wages may rise , while real wages stagnate , owing to the higher rate of inflation . even if real wages are rising in some coastal cities , “ excess labor ” could keep the national average flat in place . so the bottom line seems that rising wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness over the next ten or even 20 years . and not even real-wage growth will undermine competitiveness so long as labor productivity continues to grow at a faster rate . in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than might appear .
germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the outside world . because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the existing exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has an extremely large trade surplus with the outside world . to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” on the current exchange rate , we need to look at the trade balance . what is clear is that germany ’s net exports would remain high even if europe appreciated substantially from its current levels .
in a few weeks leading up to the election , the israeli public seemed to have grown weary of a prime minister who was in office long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a show of petty scandals . these structural components were reinforced by developments in the region , which , among israeli voters , feels threatened by multiple enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its rockets ; the rise of isis amid a state failure in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . netanyahu ’s victories have been , in fact , an impressive personal comeback . he conducted a campaign relying on his eloquence and charisma , as well as on scare tactics . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate for accommodation involving territorial concessions .
the following year , petroleum revenue management act distributed wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore saving , as advocated by economists all over the world ( including the us ) . as a result , investment should be rolled back , meaning that some oil wealth is likely to imply temporarily storing some foreign-owned oil wealth . but with last year ’s us presidential election , the situation began to worsen . throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best-laid plans may sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s ’s ’s ’s recent experience demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and production began in 2010 .
back in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis for a lack of transparency on financial markets . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , and hidden bank accounts have flourished . most developing countries have accumulated massive foreign-currency reserves , and some foreign reserves have suffered . but , with developing countries pointing their fingers at secretive bank account and hedge funds , the imf , and u.s. enthusiasm for greater transparency are diminishing . even so , some big differences exist between then and now .
if they look to the ecb , they will find the right model to deploying them . in any case , hardships suffered by the eu ’s citizens could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s end prescription , providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to compensate for reforms and fiscal consolidation in others . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctioning sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who are standing to the suffering most . europe ’s policymakers have the tools and intelligence services to retain influence in ukraine . by selectively addressing some of the most dangerous risks , draghi managed to minimize them .
to see a working-class white women be picked to serve a heartbeat from the american president resonates powerfully with them . think of the appeals of movies such as thelma and louise , or a workgirl in which a senior figure is a gutsy , exploited foreign minister who , trampled on a snooty female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to end the dream of jobs , dreams guy and corner office . so , when sarah palin escorts to the media limelight , she becomes the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , depleted factory workers , and secretaries . so , when reports are surfacing that palin told a team of african americans that she did n’t have to hire black people , working-class white women often grasp their own experience in the face of racial hostility . they perceive an underclass to believe they receives the benefits they are being denied to them , and a thriving economy – in the developing world , which siphons off well-remunerated blue-collar jobs .
it has recognized the need to shift from a model centered mainly on exports – and investment-led production ( through manufactures ) to a one led by private consumption ( through services ) . this change will give china a far better chance to avoid the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” which ensnares most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers wrongly believe that a early-stage growth recipe is adequate to achieve developed-country status . american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book , codependency for china and america ties them collectively inextricably . china has already delivered on that front , by abandoning the growth model that successfully guided the country ’s economic development for over 30 years .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives convene in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) , where they attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . whether they are producing effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . the crisis has represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving breakdowns at almost any level , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions . at last year ’s rio de janeiro summit , central-bank dialogues , which pitted inflation targeting against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; the world monetary authority should be formed to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks to the primary objective . while such solutions have some merit , they are inadequate to address effectively the complex and far-reaching gaps that resulted in the 2007-2009 global financial crisis .
specifically , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win big , with a global tech boom augmenting their gains . the resulting concentration of revenues , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities while hampering the ability of smaller players to compete . piketty ’s framework highlights a number of drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has created a no-winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically advanced actors capture market share through economies of scale . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household saving .
but prevention also must address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investor can migrate into and out of capital markets far exceeds individual countries ’ capabilities — and the international community — so to counter such flows . many countries lack foreign-currency reserves adequate to meet sudden and large-scale capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economy . sometimes these outflows can come through no fault of a country in question , but owing to a financial-market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . this phenomenon was all too apparent during the asian crisis , and following a russian default in august 1998 .
most commentators have tended to assume that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will go on , because , after all , he is prime minister after all . the only question now in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite yet , ” “ not before the next election , ” or simply plain “ no . ” it is the decision taken virtually independently of prime minister tony blair and even against his wishes . blair believes that britain will be joining the euro because it wants britain to be , as he puts it , “ to the heart of europe . ” like the courtiers who surround louis xviii , “ they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . ”
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including truth and evidence commitments , ” was accompanied by an indefinite “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion , ” and to play on such repressed emotions as racism and envy . yet , what can stop the demons already unleashed ? the outcome of trump ’s approach is that america ’s ’s existing problems worsen and enormous opportunities are missing out on it . and yet , although halted , can the damage that they have already wrought ? there has been some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn a clearly white supremacist attempt in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite a right ” rally in august ended with the killings of a counterprotester .
the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , in contrast to all the other presidential candidates since richard nixon ’s refusal to loosen his income-tax record . what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . that might seem widely beneficial , but it could help out only those in high enough us tax brackets to itemize deductions , mostly those of households with incomes above $ 75,000 ( median american household income stood at $ 54,462 ) in 2015 . finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for the average cost of childcare . indeed , there is little indication of how any of his tax policies would be financed , with every indication that he will widen the budget deficit sharply .
and in south africa , marlon parker , a co-founder of the academy of social innovation and incubator buildings , has created a virtual currency , called zlato , in order to encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . at a time when young people attend class , approach laptops ; or book rooms at swedish cafés , they earn zlato provide credit that can exchange food , medical healing , and basic necessities . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are sorting out the root cause of migration on – and off – the continent . ever since its inception in 2008 , rclabs have created tens of thousands of jobs and are now active in 24 countries . for example , entrepreneurs backed through the anzisha prize have created more than 300 jobs , creating more than $ 850,000 in capital .
but this would annoy hardline brexiteers and might split the conservative party , risk theresa may has been unwilling to take . but then , instead , scotland would call its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , placed the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup and perhaps dissolution . avoiding such a scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . that choice is between one of three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether . british leaders need to recognize that all of the brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences .
encouragingly , seeking to do more and provide more of it rationale for doing so are certainly the worthwhile task of india ’s government – and the overt objective of getting the annual conclave in line . indeed , the country has received some $ 70 billion in remittances last year , more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian illustration of the pravasi bharatiya divas ’s celebrations , as suggested by state governments ’ numerous parallel seminars to attract expatriate investment . the importance of diaspora financing , from working-class indians ’ remittances that transformed kerala ’s rural land to millions flowing into high-tech enterprises in bangalore or gurgaon of silicon valley investors , can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . but the us should not pull off : overseas indians continue to invest a less share of its resources in india than overseas chinese do in china .
firms that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and loss of branded value , falling sales , difficulties in recruiting talent , lower-paid worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or climate-change-related increases . in response to concerns among customers , employees , and their shareholders , apple has improved their working conditions and agreed on regular reviews by an independent board . companies that scores poorly risk losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or regulatory moves . apple ’s brand , for example , has recently been rocked by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , hosting most of its iphones and ipads . there are now mobile-phone apps that evaluate and grade large multinational companies for customers ’ customer supply chains , companies and public employees .
the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent excellent published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic shifts explain much of the increases in saving rates as chinese substituted capital investment for child-investment . but income growth and demographics do not explain everything . for example , uptrend saving toward china began at the same time as its one-child policy was enacted in 1979 . this prevented birth rates from rebounding following the cultural revolution of 1966-76 . but they also tolerate agricultural or government policies that encourage high saving .
whereas the concept is modern , the notion is not a new one . in the 1830s , former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes was picked to meet franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate , but one who was not a distinguished student . in his work , practical people understood its importance in governance . most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his emotional than on his analytical iq . asked later about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ”
since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by an almost permanent civil war based on a north-south cultural and religious divide . matters were then complicated by a isolated conflict , this time among muslims – over resources in the western darfur region – were also complicated . a separate but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei will enable voters to decide if it meant joining the country ’s north or south . the artificial fusion of mainly arab countries , the muslim north of sudan , and the african south , where christianity and the traditional animosities and animist beliefs have been an abject failure . if the non-muslim south regained at its autonomy a great amount of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within an decentralized federal structure , it is inconceivable that the country could remain at peace .
when i was administrator of the undp , i had to deal with continuous and continuous use of requests from government agents . normally , they were formulated in an acceptable manner , asking me to “ look into ” a particular issue . but i also received requests , often from global superpowers , in ways that were in clear violation of article 100 of the un charter , and that i had to spend a great deal of time attempting to evade engaging with governments on such terms . nonetheless , my general experience at the undp , and the world bank , suggested that staff and governance could , and did , behave according to article 100 . being responsive to the concerns of member states and priorities was right and ordinary ; taking orders from them was not .
meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis finds that those who have ignored climate-change warnings have been getting financially hit . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 trillion over the three years leading it to 2018 on the grounds that the company is misjudging the pace of a shift toward green energy and a breakdown in demand for gas turbines , and thermal power stations . these investors are calling upon governments not only to curb rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement ’s tougher target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost roughly $ 90 billion over the past decade , about three-quarters of which resulted from its holdings by exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . more broadly , the investor agenda for a low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in debt-financed assets .
indeed , conflict with the united states is unlikely , at least for the moment . but trouble with america ’s allies , in particular japan , might draw the us in a fight that it prefers not to avoid . in short , over the next year or so , china stands on the edge of large , necessary , and dangerous transformations that it promise to transform the country for the sake of a better life – or to make it all , including regional stability – far worse . throughout the world , a great deal of influence is at stake for what happens next . at such a delicate time internally , it would be possible for china to gain anything beyond antagonizing the us .
south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and the anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer have likened the bill to a legislation of apartheid . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information , and in many cases , the information of private business is just as well . now , however , south africa ’s right to information is being jeopardy . in late november , the lower-house parliament , led by a supermajority of african national congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly endorsed a new law , the “ protection of state information bill ” ( anc ) , whose acceptance would shield a country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and the anti-apartheid activist , nadine gordimer , was likened to a bill to apartheid legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , but it remains a powerful performer , contributing around one-third of total economic growth globally . it has also become more sustainable , in line with a shift to its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china cried loudly for new pledges to spur growth in advanced and emerging-market economies . but , at home , china faces major risks . above all , local-government borrowing continues to sputter at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels .
hong kong – early this century , when china initiated its “ exit ” ” ” policy , the country focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies , few expected the country to quickly emerge as the leading economic player in latin america . yet that is precisely what has already been happening , and it is precisely what has been happening since . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly , a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon , china has now set its sights on another goal : expanding its political clout within and outside the region . the question now is whether that could be good news for latin america . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather marginal economic role in latin america to now among the region ’s top investors and trading partners , along with its foremost lender and infrastructure builder .
meanwhile , there is little question about which an american candidate putin wants to see in the white house . in remarks follow the press conference , he lavished praise on trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and on the “ absolute leader of the presidential race . ” both are consummate propagandists and performers . and both are prepared – even anxious – for a bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead . the two men are certainly deserving of each other ; the two men are on the ground that they want ; the two .
as the economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a larger state to compensate for those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and like it . the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda , pursuing labor-market , taxation , and investment policies that can “ adjust france ” in an era of “ capitalist , ” globalization . in practice , this would mean pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an outdated center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . a other avenue would require macron to build on a preexisting but ambiguous view of left-wing internationalism . somewhat surprisingly , this is a route that he initially chose , quickly becoming the darling of a statist international press .
in a benign scenario , humans will club together separate states according to their preferences for big or small government , public or private provision of services and international cooperation or isolationism . mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . in an vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the us congress might seek to curtail progressive states of entitlement . “ why are we looking to the federal government to try and fix our local problems ? ” but if you live in a state eager to mandate one ’s maternity coverage , including 60-year-old women , that ’s fine , ” ” and if you fail , then you can figure out the way to alter a state that you live in ” or change “ state legislatures and state law , ” in mulvaney words .
indeed , whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and as many as 14 % of taiwan ’s ’s , meet with nuclear , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phase-out of the nuclear industry through a non-renewal of existing licenses and prohibitions on future plants . blueprints remains formulated but taken together by both countries ’ pledges label a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . moreover , they pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , marketing their countries into regional competition . for years , overdependence on traditional fuels has discouraged chinese investment in clean-power generation technologies , despite both countries ’ own innovators , such as renewable-energy storage and smartphones .
under severe pressure from america , china ’s leaders accepted essentially to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is unavoidable as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restraints on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender its control over its money supply and america ’s interest rate . yet it is china ’s rulers who are correct to postpone that decision to float . the chinese can delay , but they can not hide from fundamental economic theory : when exchange rates between two countries ’ currencies are fixed , and with capital flows between them unrestricted ; the economically dominant ones exercise control in others ’ monetary policy . because the dollar is the dominant global reserve currency and the american fed controls the money supply in america ’s foreign reserves , as long as china sticks to its fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply .
as the paris agreement recognizes , with many scientists believing that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation will be extraordinarily expensive , particularly for developing and israeli states . thus , we are all in a race to the top . the good news is that , if we somehow stopped all of our emissions today , temperatures will continue to rise only within a decade , or even so , before it stabilizes . in fact , even that level may not remain low enough . will we be switching the tap into zero-net emissions levels before the bathtub hits a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ?
mind you , western citizens are blessed with a life of peace time : changing circumstances and priorities can be tackled via the eu ’s democratic processes of foreign and civil wars . but what , precisely , is a democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining decisions ? i am afraid that this will not be a full picture . is it really enough to get the 52 % voting to vote on a breakup on a rainy day ? indeed , nobody has a clue as to the consequences , either for the uk in the global trading system or for its effect on domestic political stability .
defense spending amounts to 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and just 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the uk reach 3 % . thus , one would expect smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense than larger ones . security and global influence are not the only benefits implied by military spending . rather , today , america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and america ’s defense spending is likely to rise even more in the years to come . but confining debate about defense commitment to one percentage point of its gdp spent on troops does n’t mean that there are economies of scale on defense spending .
new york – at the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly this month , there was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate postwar period , and sensed if he was “ present at the drafting process ” of a new world , based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . at the unga earlier this year , however , many attendees felt as though they had been present for the destruction of that world . the anxieties went beyond the standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say , do , or a tweet . even before the summit actually began , europeans , canadians , south korea , and japan had been consulted in earnest about the need for new alliances to save the multilateral system .
even when america is n’t on track lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , with nudging rivals closer to one another to form a united opposition bloc and working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals . in the medium-term , the world abounds with tensions and potential crises that american leadership is probably indispensable to resolving it . as the events over egypt last two weeks demonstrate all too vividly , the arab awakening still bears little resemblance to its first actions in many countries around the world . indeed , the region ’s democracy is fragile , at best , across north africa ; and in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have merely started to feel the aftertimes of the tidal wave sweeping the region . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and simmering conflict between iran and israel could be set to flare at some point once .
in today ’s germany , for all of its decisive power in business , finance , or government experienced post-war reconstruction , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future . these new leaders envision europe alone as a vehicle of trade regimes . these new leaders envision europe solely as a vehicle for trade regimes . in the meantime , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , rather than merely in eastern europe . the impact of that lost european perspective became evident in the fall of 2008 , when , after the subprime crisis and the default on lehman brothers – german chancellor angela merkel ’s first-impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the present for many years to come . such flaws are particularly visible in poland , where a highly centralized political system generates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
such a pact – calling for “ united economic space ” – is entered into force by russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , sadly , the accord will entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal trading practices only by enhancing trade or prosperity . when a free-trade deal is a bad one ? when the treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither trade nor freedom .
the party ’s imposing headquarters in tunis symbolize its status as a country ’s most effective political operation by a large margin . the ascent of nahda ( renaissance ) , an islamist party leading , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among newly liberated people than it is of a testament to the party ’s spectacular capacity to fill post-revolutionary political power vacuum . since january , nahda has opened more than 200 offices for nahda . while opponents ominously recall involvement in party cadres under a deadly tourist bombings in 1991 , nahda went on to go to some lengths to appease its critics . scores of male volunteers are stretched in electoral campaigning campaigning at a grassroots level .
consider first the claim that the us dollar ’s status as an international reserve currency protects it , because governments worldwide need to hold dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . in earlier decades , countries were kept dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid , widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap should their imports exceed their exports . the problem is that foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-currency reserves ” in the traditional sense . the obvious candidate to do this reserve fund was american treasury bills . but , since the late 1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large foreign reserve volumes , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and the desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis .
by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . good economics on the other hand recognizes the government ’s duty to safeguard its constituents against hardship , insecurity , and disaster . it is extremely difficult for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary is offering a stark example of the regulatory former . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian .
the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could fuel rising global conflict . yet the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to wider global conflict . globally , countries and organizations are already mobilizing . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a shared plan of action , with france , ’s president nicolas sarkozy , proposing a global food partnership . the world bank has forcefully stressed the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion and breaking the cycle of poverty .
so , why is investors holding such assets to account ? to be sure , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan needs positive spreads even to break returns , and when most of their assets yield negative nominal returns , such outcomes become increasingly hard to reach . and yet negative bond yields are also occurring in countries and regions where a currency depreciates and is likely to depreciate further , including in germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan . many other long-term investors , like insurance and pension funds , do not have an alternative , because they are obligated to hold safer bonds . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are mostly to invest in bonds that are less risky than stocks or any other volatile assets .
in his first year and a half in office , macron has begun to tackle these problems , managing to deliver an eu budget consistent with eu deficit rules . the trouble is that , in pursuing such reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . with polls indicating that by about 70 % of french support for the “ yellow vest ” protesters , macron has been forced to retreat through it . and so , when his government was announced that it would increase its tax on diesel fuel , the middle – and working-class commuters take to the streets . a step by step , his reforms seem consistently to benefit the very rich .
many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their influence over the international system , by intervening politically and militarily in the affairs of others , with no obvious endgame . in recent years , an intensifying backlash against international cooperation has been brewing , rooted in concerns , in part , by populist political leaders in many countries , that the transnational “ elites ” are attempting to impose “ globalism ” : an ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . but perspectives that refute that narrative seem to be gaining ground . as it stands , perhaps the biggest barriers to international cooperation are political . some also argue that the global elite merely feigned pursuing socioeconomic change while , in fact , preserving the status quo that benefited them .
by pushing inflation higher , the fed would turn real interest rates into serious negative territory , which would coercing thrifty households in delivering instead of saving . with rising demand , firms would hire , and all would do well . first , whereas low rates might stimulate spending if credit were easy to buy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go out and spend . think of the soon-to-age soon-to-be soon-to-be-retire worker status . this is a different logic from the one calling for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at investors ’ expense ) , but has equally severe vulnerabilities .
for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers padded misleading accounting of debt cancellation operations . while the g-8 made some clear promise , there has been no roadmap on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there have been clear guidance that no such plan will be made . with these debt cancellation operations largely completed , the data are now revealing a stark fact : development aid to africa , and poor countries more generally , remains stagnant , in contrast to all the promises that have been made . at the same time , the g-8 is reaping the consequences of its inaction . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , africa ’s overall aid numbers , excluding debt cancellation operations , soared by a meager 2 % .
yet , globally , inequality seems to be declining . and while inequality has been on the rise in within some advanced economies , the increase has not been particularly dramatic , and remains at a reasonable level . this , however , is not what the average citizen sees , at least in most cases . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have occurred in inequality . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on the 2015-2016 life of the transition survey produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i was chief economist ) , the perceived rise in inequality far exceeds the reality that official data describe .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the most powerful policy-making organizations in world history . and while the fed has been partly to blame for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with an even greater degree of authority and greater responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is an alarming outcome because senior fed officials seem to have slipped back into their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when those concerns are expressed by members of america ’s senate banking committee . this is not just unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political position is far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize . america ’s central bank has control over the money supply , and currently it exerts tremendous influence over interest rates both for short-term , long-term borrowing .
more by luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation failed to develop . unless a global disaster occurs , unless it occurs , a meteorite impact on women , world war i , or a pandemic – mankind will remain a major environmental force for many millennia to come . as a result , over the course of the anthropocene era , scientists and engineers are facing a daunting challenge : to guide us toward environmentally sustainable management . that will require appropriate human behavior at all levels , and perhaps well involve internationally embraced , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize climate . ” at this stage , however , we remain largely treading toward terra incognita .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that recently emerged from dictatorship . in all of these cases , a cynic would be half-right . the process calls for a constitution making of a often complex and painful kind . constitutional change is for political leaders to be a welcome distraction from much more change-resistant issues . but there are , in fact , at least two exceptions to this suspicion .
the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economic growth reflects the trends that prevailed at the first quarter of this year . that is undermining corporate profitability , spurring firms to deleverage and cut investment , fueling further declines in ppi . this is not to say that what china needs is stronger real-estate investment . annual gdp growth of a 6.7 % age , despite being the slowest rate for any quarter in seven years , has outlived market expectations . and it has been driven partly by a contingencies growth rate , to 6 % .
it all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” , house prices multinational corporations are using them to place their value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which , in terms of value-added production , is making the largest payments . iran is party to import some of its inputs ( most notably , its intellectual property represented by a drug patent ) , its assembles a product in iran , and exports back home to the us . in terms of value-added production , the patent makes the largest benefits . but this does not mean that trump ’s skeptics can just sit back and wait for it to prove wrong , for it is possible that his reported trade deficit will narrow , even as the true us trade deficit widens .
recommendations have included increased affordable transportation to family-planning devices ; expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) ; increasing the availability of sex education ; and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . if countries like south africa are ever to break out of republican administrations by means of reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to fight the global gag rule . at home , solutions are needed that require developing countries to start shifting away from conditional aid that restricts health-care providers ’ capacity to operate in accordance with local law . above all , local ngos , combined with responsible global partners , must find new support to programs that educate women about their rights , and that provide access to safe abortion services . and yet , due to us policy , none of these changes will easily come .
it was gandhi ’s faith that reflection may motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . we want technology firms to play a central role in providing new ideas and disruptive thinking . we want companies already offer refugees online education , internet access , and hardware to steer services for education ’s displaced and isolated girls and boys . in establishing that fund , we are ending an era of formulaic crises response . what makes this fund unique is not the chain of new benchmarks .
but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has begun to pull itself together . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the outside eu , but an overwhelming majority of voters emerged at the expense of europe . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but fell into turmoil . debate over the association agreement with the european union , together with the russian-backed rebellion in the far east , has stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . russia ’s intervention has to some extent backfired , boosting support for a european reorientation .
the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the eu ’s banking integrity , coming under pressure from both brexit and the crises gripping italy ’s ’s ’s banks . against this backdrop , the challenge will be to maintain the primacy of global standards , and to secure the continued buy-in of the basel process . meanwhile , regulators are now an keenly focused on the consequences of brexit , requiring complex arrangements to manage a new london relationship with the eurozone . the bank for international settlements ’ new general supervisor , agustín carstens , the former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play here , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the bank of england ’s current governor ) next year as chairman of the fsb . it is likely that a new chair of the basel committee will soon make it up for grabs .
supervision , greater transparency for financial markets , an efficient early-warning system for financial crises , and better international political coordination . at the same time , regulatory loopholes have created spillover effects for banks that operate globally . clearly , international coordination of regulation requires , first and foremost , spillover effects on other countries . at the same time , crisis resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally have been absent . the crisis has made it clear that national oversight of the banks that operate globally is inadequate .
europeans can confront down the threats of american extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india and russia . in reality , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . if america were to impose them against much of the rest of the world , the damage to america ’s economy , dollar , stock markets , and american leadership would be irreparable . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , the renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoiding american banks . oil-for-goods trade with iran can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism like instex .
the fact that the international monetary fund , the american ministry of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing the vulture funds is revealing . but so , too , is the court ’s decision , which evidently places little weight on their arguments . when a sufficient share of creditors agree on a plan for restructuring ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of a country ’s gdp ) , it is possible to force others to go along . countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without establishing more fully what was intended . such treaties should also incorporate collective-action clauses , which make it impossible for vulture funds to hold down debt restructuring .
oil exporters need to increase fiscal expenditure further ; japan and the us must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and america must implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings . indeed , rebalancing the growth pattern is central to china ’s leadership . knowing what to make in this increasingly complicated and volatile situation is the easy part : look at multilateral consultation policy plans , and act just about it . as a recent semiannual report by america by the us congress noted in congress , for china ’s plans these plans aim to “ rebalance ” its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility within its exchange-rate regime . but expanding demand and allowing actual effective exchange rate appreciation to occur in china will not be sufficient if other countries do not do their part .
following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . but , as the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-focused , economists are increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as estimating the size of an economy ’s health care , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience demonstrates why an approach that is badly needed . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of an economy ’s ’s ’s ’s welfare for more than 80 years .
the notion that he should not take steps to protect his interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , lends credence to putin ’s claim that the west is out of getting him . do not get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the american remains a positive force of positive global power . and , for the west , ’s policies toward russia , economic sanctions , or military exercises in a border country like poland ’s are not necessarily wrong . indeed , it may well be the only , vigorous positive force , alongside the european union , that should stop squabbling and begin curtailing the “ megalomaniacal , ” illiberal state leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . moreover , the outlook that their new president is in putin ’s pockets should certainly concern americans .
according to the oecd and the un ’s climate policy initiative , the developed countries have collectively mobilized $ 52.2 trillion in 2013 , and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions , and have built resilience to the effects of climate change that they can no longer avoid . while it is important to note that this figure is just a prediction , it represents a tentative but credible indicator of climate finance , based on the informational effects of developed countries . if one assumes greater leverage over private-sector investment , the figure would be higher . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that a commitment will be made . but greater financial flows are needed , especially from the private sector itself .
first , between such sources of uncertainty , goes the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to implosion , or will greater multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions be able to adjust quickly enough to harness the change , or will choke off will defeat it ? and this leads to yet another potentially game-changing matter : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is a set of questions about the impact of new technologies . moreover , whereas inter-state conflict has receded , intrastate conflicts fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague certain regions like the middle east , south asia , and africa .
the irony , however , is that america has exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector within the framework of the bush administration ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , is determined levels of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future democratic iraq . were the bush administration to seek a stable , secure , diverse , and low-cost oil supply , it might have just lifted the embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let the oil gush out . but american interest in iraqi oil was not driven by either economics or energy policy . the bush administration recognized that , above all , iraqi oil was a critical geopolitical asset . were the us to continue to try to maintain stable , secure , diverse , and low-cost oil supplies , it might have been simply lifted the embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and to let the oil gush .
compared to indian capitalism , the ’s capitalism ’s ’s ethical failures elsewhere look particularly benign . yet challengers , such as that of china and india , fall well short of preach . residents of india ’s hundred oligarchs hold assets equivalent to roughly 25 % of their gdp , while more than 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than one dollar a day . moreover , while it is true that china will become the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans will still be far richer than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than that of the us in china . to be sure , income inequality and social injustices are an concomitant of western-style capitalist culture .
typically , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be analogous to those of different types of labor income , various kinds of consumption , outlays versus tomorrow , and so forth . from this perspective , a shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system says that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( as a result of means of testing welfare programs ) and at the top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . thus , the government has moved in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the very bottom ( through dramatically increased transfer programs ) , and more recently at the top ( by raising tax rates on the wealthy ) . one of the most cost-efficient tax-raising method is america ’s payroll taxes for which marginal tax rates close to the average rate ( because deductions are absent and there is little rate graduation ) . cutting payroll taxes in 2011-2012 , and thus making the rate rescheduled for more graduated ( medicare side ) , was errors of the standpoint of efficient tax rates .
for example , even with rising global energy and food prices at more subdued rates than now – accounting for about 20 % a year – and get reflected in home prices , bringing the overall annual inflation rate to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere that would almost certainly entail a pegged economic slowdown and high unemployment . rising interest rates can undercut aggregate demand , thereby enabling the economy to slow and tame upward pressure on the prices of some goods and services , in particular non-traded goods and services . but unless taken to unbearable levels , such actions by themselves can not put inflation down to targeted levels . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for grain ; they must pay more to bring it into their countries , and increasingly , to deliver it to consumers , who may live a long distance from their ports . so , long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy , and failing measures to restrain the impact of international prices on home prices are bound to rise markedly when international prices do occur .
accordingly , they do not formally give up anything at all . the leaders that brought about failure , and groups that did not triumph , are capable of claiming that they courageously fought the “ enemy ” without being crushed . the important point to them is that they gain vengeance by inflicting harm , showing that they are actual men , did not buckle under , and survive . such a pattern is a formula for endless conflict and endless defeat . yet the defeats do not force new attitudes , either , policies , or leaders .
although america is deeply divided in 2017 , americans remain committed to the central tenets of democracy : freedom , fair and periodic elections , and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . trump will be unlikely to try to overturn any of them ; and , even if he does , he will fail . america ’s basic governance institutions have outlived greater challenges than any that trump might pose . having left office , america essentially will be on what it got around when it went into it : the world ’s most powerful democracy . fearful pronouncements about the rise of the incipient ( or actual ) level of fascism are misplaced .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent , even when tissue was already removed from a patient ’s or not body . nowadays , brain tissues banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and body tissue repositories for studying a variety of diseases . indeed , virtually all of us now have tissue on the file , and we do not know it . which is supposed to enjoy access to such samples ? for what purposes , can they be used ?
most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies need to learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership imperatives . in turn , potential leaders can learn more about the sources and limits of soft-power competence of emotional iq , vision and vision and communication , along with hard-power political and organizational skills . they also need to understand better the nature of contextual intelligence that they will have to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . with soft power , by contrast , the power of empowered followers strengthens leaders . leadership is broadly distributed across healthy democracies , and it is necessary for all citizens to learn more about what makes good and bad management possible .
the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a cease-fire agreement . that deal was meant to set the stage for an independence referendum in western sahara this year , a democratic solution . but morocco has avoided this from ever entering into the fold . it has done so in its defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to decry the un ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s special envoy , from traveling to the region to setting the stage for the talks . morocco has also repeatedly blocking progress toward further negotiations .
to a large extent , sarkozy may well be seen as chirac with more of her own , whereas royal is manifestly mitterrand with less . moreover , the both candidates embody continuity , with chirac the gaullist party for sarkozy , and with françois mitterrand for royal , just as much rupture . royal is asserting itself openly mitterand ’s legacy as she seeks legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form , rather than substance . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative considerations than on positive considerations , as it did when chirac confronted the now-odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round . as in 2002 , the victor later might be whomever the electorate dislikes or fears less .
but china ’s recent shift away from musk ’s muscle-flexing , and its confluence of us-led interests there , offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability later this year . indeed , throughout the conflict , china has withdrew its jumbo oil platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , sending surveillance ships into the senkaku islands even less frequently . with obama unwilling or unable , owing to rising political partisanship at home , taking the lead in addressing crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to america ’s primacy took heart in 2014 , with america ’s allies taking fright . likewise , chinese officials have become more willing to discuss creating a code of conduct for the south china sea . global power must be allocated on its own ; unless america is to fill its leading role on the international stage , understudy will need to tread .
labor-force participation in america has fallen back to levels not seen since women started entering the us labor market in large numbers . most americans ’ incomes and wealth levels remain below their levels long before the crisis . indeed , a typical full-employment worker is lower than it was in over four decades . yes , the us has done some things to make it better for its financial markets . yes , the us has done some increases in capital requirements .
what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant . the two leading contenders for the us party ’s nomination , donald trump , and the ted cruz , both say , will tear up an iran nuclear deal , if elected . it is worth recalling president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear bill clinton ’s “ united nations framework treaty ” with north korea : the kim regime has promptly and predictably developed the country ’s nuclear bombs . whether america ’s leadership will continue to lead in the world remains unclear . a big republican presidential campaign adds another element of uncertainty to the us .
president vladimir voronin subsequently granted the detainees a amnesty international . to restore stability and a fair democratic system to moldova is important , first , and foremost , because moldovans deserve a government-guaranteed government that is accountable . stability is also important because a country borders on romania , a european union member state . so far , many remain in detention , and voronin continue to hurl accusations at the opposition , and romania of organizing coup d’état . in the process , the legal process has been opened against opposition parties .
this , in turn , raises a raft of alternative questions . have economists focused on precisely the wrong indicators ? on their eve , a number of arab autocrats were , in fact , lauded for the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting a set of “ correct ” economic policies . were they misled by false inferences ? the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is an obvious indication that there might have been a problem with the policies to which they prescribed to arab ancien régimes .
whereas china did decide to permit the rmb to appreciate gradually after it did , it ended up relying on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . so far , the key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-residents from clinging to domestic rmb-denominated assets that are unrelated to trade and longer-term capital flows . controls are leaky , to be sure , but they work ( so far ) – which is why china effectively maintains macroeconomic stability over the years . but rmb internationalization encourages non-non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . in the name of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents amounted to rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) , and the dollar could reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
trump does n’t just want to avoid repeating some of the past ’s failed policies , as he stresses it . it is , however , more than that . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently of the age of total war that would arrive less than a century after his death . he and his supporters also acted on the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy rests , including courts , legislative branches , independent media , and more . when it comes to democracy , these are directly under threat in a country that is supposed to have its deepest cultural and political roots .
in short , structural reforms alone can not be relied upon to spur growth in 2012 . whereas official interest rates are just 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , whereas italy ’s creditworthy firms can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . the eu urgently needs an immediate focus on boosting investment and exports in current-account economies such as france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) , and stimulating consumption in surplus countries , such as germany and the netherlands . so the ecb should do more to block a transmission mechanism for european monetary policy ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise particular capital amounts rather than hit a unified 9 % ratio ; and , where needed , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size firms . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; it now needs support for the real economy , too .
in fact , aznar ’s program is sensible yet ambitious . during prime minister aznar ’s first term , his popular party privatized most public-sector firms , with a deregulated economy of many service sectors . its new government vows to continue eliminating the fiscal deficit and reducing the unemployment rate . it also promises to cut taxes on income , place the country ’s social security system on a firmer footing , and reduce the costs for shedding labor . introducing genuine competition in energy and telecoms , missing the privatization process until now , is also pledged .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every field of business life ; trump in terms of business activity over internet astounds . an important new report by america ’s department of commerce , “ the emerging digital economy ” suggests that the internet is repursing not just american entrepreneurship , but the world economy as a whole . in 1994 , a group of three million people , most of them americans , used the internet of things . as recently as january 1995 , some 27,000 business addresses were online . in 1998 , according to the mckinsey global institute , one in four million people worldwide used the internet .
despite the fact that cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants can occur , so far , not new superweeds have emerged . regulations to protect the environment , and consumer health should be maintained . there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far more scrutiny than more natural ” foods . ( natural foods can also introduce health risk , as shown recently by studies establishing that a favorite type of cinnamon can cause liver harm . ) ( natural foods can also present health risks , as demonstrated by studies establishing that a favorite type of cinnamon can cause liver harm .
a virus can be just a few hundred lines of the world ’s computer code , compared to the hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must be designed to detect a broad spectrum of enemies from one to another . unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until the risks do actually materialize . virus protection and the development of the virus constitutes an uneven arms race in the us . so let us hope that we are fortunate for some time now . we are told not to fear large-scale cyber meltdowns because none occurred and governments remain vigilant .
those impressive figures emerged from a comprehensive analysis , conducted by a team of top economists tasked with my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessing possible population-related targets to identify the best global investments possible . this approach has tremendous potential benefits , with the money available to it . such migrant workers ’ taxes would help the developed world fund services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . moreover , each dollar invested in the initiative would generate almost $ 50 in returns , making it exceptionally efficient for scarce resources . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country workforces would provide a larger economic boost than removing all remaining trade barriers .
since then , numerous epidemiological studies have cited the association between childhood asthma and exposure to paracetamol in the womb , childhood , and in adulthood . wellington – – known as spawning paracetamol in the united states – is one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs . it is the preferred medications for unaffordable fever and pain due to its safety profile , 10 years ago , the hypothesis was proposed that the use of paracetamol could raise the risk of developing asthma . these studies led to the suggestion that using paracetamol may represent an important risk factor in the development of asthma . wellington – – – known as spacetaminophen in the united states – is one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs . since then , a variety of epidemiological studies have cited the association between childhood asthma and exposure to paracetamol in the womb , in childhood , and in adulthood .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the united nations department of physics and astronomy in western kentucky university . mcgruder , working closely with the african astronomers , concedes that a region ’s space program is critical to raise the profile of its careers in science and engineering a world where the most educated people still travel in either finance or government . in a country deeply divided economically , “ what on the earth is conducive to the poor and downtrodden of serious space research ? ” “ the answer , ” he says , is an partial fact that by promoting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our subsequent generation of intellectuals . nowadays , the country is believed to have around 60 working astronomers , with more than half of all astronomers working in africa .
mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and the mega-financial crisis were the logical result . in this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads , particularly in the post-2008 reality , that confirmed total control of society by mega-firms and mega-banks . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech and all of the other ingredients of today ’s discontent with capitalism became inescapable . because neither banks nor investors had enough money to plough into networked mega-firms , a mega-bank emerged in the form of a global bank-cartel and a shadowy fund , each with its own shareholders . unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profitably managing its future .
that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is falling back into its pre-crisis pace of growth or spending pattern . at the same time , there are earlier forms of trade balances about to re-emerge . america ’s trade position will be strengthened through the shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and productivity increases that auger further re-shoring of manufacturing output . emerging markets , for their part , have learned that export trade surpluses are no guarantee for rapid growth . a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would re-emerge as soon a crisis passed .
still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find credible news alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are pillaging eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s government has been on the subject of a series of investigations by europe ’s anti-fraud office . both governments have gutted nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted the media . despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month ; and his fidesz party , in an alliance with the christian democrats ( cdu ) , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority , enough to amend the constitution . during the electoral campaign , orbán ’s government saturated a country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda .
this loss of differentiate capacity can be attributed to specific mode , in which the stem cells yield , the conditions surrounding their increased , and other variables to consult . following such debates , america ’s national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that enable relying on government funds for stem-cell research , but that prohibit conjuring investigators from forming new stem cell lines . that restriction requires that stem cell lines have to be extracted solely from the privately-financed or commercial sources that follow the protocols mandated by guidelines . i am convinced that restricting the use of government sources to creating stem-cell lines , however politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps . we know that a host of poorly understood factors cause embryonic stem cells to miss their capacity to differentiate into every conceivable cell types .
yet , far from accepting such contributions , the scheme would mostly cut regulators off from a process at all . the plan , for example , would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank ’s bankruptcy , leaving it to the discretion of bank ’s own managers . whereas bank regulators have the tools to push banks similarly , their most effective power is power to initiate bankruptcy when the economy is best equipped to do so . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often wait too long to declare bankruptcy , so that creditors can step in to do some pushback , potentially even force the bankruptcies of an ailing firm . in fact , taking this tool away could have serious adverse consequences .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” of climate change . investment in alternative energy technologies such as solar and wind no longer appears peddled even environmentally friendly . instead , we are being told by the purported economic payoffs primarily to the promise of being so-called “ green jobs . ” the copenhagen consensus center asked gül , a senior energy economist at the center for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin , to assess the “ state of the science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting that green jobs will be created . unfortunately , that does not measure up to economic reality .
in today ’s winner-takes-all economies , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest . genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to spur two struggling governments and overcome their conservatism . but it is regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are very ambiguous . it is absolutely essential that this text go together with a new method , tailored to the contemporary world in which we live – a world where politics is no longer conducted in muffled ministerial debates or through convoluted communiqués . after all , we entered an era in which speeds , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across sectors is an essential element of success .
what is needed now is pro-growth investment , which will help to provide jobs for our peoples and products , and around the world . that means concentrating on promoting market economies and a stable government , rather than subsidizing failure and failed states . somaliland and ethiopia , for example , are collaborating to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ’s ’s ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs , and incomes for people in one of the world ’s poorest and lower-middle-income parts . while there is much that the us can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still benefit from international aid . but the international community needs more than supplying food and medicine to victims of famine and drought .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . trento – the single most significant result of the recent european parliament election is neither that the conservatives and social democrats have lost seats to the liberals and greens , nor that far-right nationalists have gained far less than anticipated . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in a sense , the killings at srebrenica have also been tainted by memories of world war ii . nonetheless , laudable efforts to prevent such an thing from recurring have had unfortunate consequences . for , in our predisposition to learn the lessons of history , we frequently learn the wrong ones , or distort history toward dubious ends . we know that hitler had his intention to destroy every last jewish person , a woman and a child . even while the mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual .
but the path to particularistic action that does not undermine the freedom and equality of all of its citizens is narrow . democratic principles call for organizing society in a way that allows both values to be realized to their fullest extent . this has become a paradox , intrinsic to democracy , and represents politicians ’ duty to deal with the tensions that it embodies . yet it is citizens ’ responsibility , too , to maintain formal , political meaning of citizenship , just as state interference broadens , in order to guarantee the well being of everyone . that , in the name of greater equality , may inhibit political freedom in the name of political freedom .
if america 's rate of growth over the decades remains what it has endured in the past thirty years , the answer is straightforward and terrifying . stock market prices would have been far too high , at best , or at all . certainly , households would behave in totally irresponsible ways . do those figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are ordinary signs of boom ? a counter-exterior imbalance would be nonjustifiable , indeed a unsustainable one .
moreover , according to better measures of comptetitiveness , france is doing extremely well . baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not quite as persuasive as he believes . he cites draining away from industrial jobs , for example , as the most glaring evidence for france ’s slump . yet deindustrialization is common to all advanced countries . indeed , france actually does better than most of its wealthy country rivals , and , unlike germany , spain , the united kingdom , or the us , retained the same global market share in the industrial sector , which it had in the early 1970s .
this , i know , is not exactly a fresh lesson ; it is exactly what i have in mind when thinking about efficient multilateralism . a second lesson i learned is also a useful one for the eu , one that finds itself in a world in which the new powers emerges and where every actor , from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence on a day-to-day basis . that lesson is that europe has more friends than its enemies . if italy and the eu did not grasp the need to work with non-european countries to make them feel that their responsibility and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc , and be so closely integrated to declare a universal moratorium on capital punishment will fail . so those friends deserve respect , and their attention remains so low .
in his campaign speeches , trump made use of kate steinle ’s tragic murder in the us by an undocumented immigrant in order to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . this is not , of course , offering any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who save strangers ’ lives , though such cases have been reported . empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize . of course , he offered no similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who save strangers ’ lives , though such cases have been reported . the trouble is that empathy for american workers is in tension with the empathy of employed workers in mexico and china that would make them even worse off without a job in their american counterparts .
this brings us to the imf close , namely using its bully pulpit to warn of the risks generated by the large-country policies . financial markets and institutions with a global reach , need a global regulator of macro-prudential , not only a loosely organized college of supervisors . small countries fall prey to market discipline as any latvian indicates you . or it could fall prey to national policymakers ’ lack of faith in the imf , given that it essentially missed the global financial crisis . if it does , the fund needs to win back its confidence in its global financial system .
in any technologically progressive economy , prices should come down , except in some niche markets . they need only do not require low inflation to expand production ; to do so , an obvious criticism is needed . provided that there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for work ; the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . this is friedrich hayek ’s celebrated argument on any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize price levels . what businessmen need not are low inflation necessary to expand production .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economies are about half the size of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gdp , but larger than japan ’s , and more than twice that of india . those divergences help to explain why many of these new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of the n-11 in many respects by a mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey , and the fog ( swapping in south korea to nigeria ) and the fog ( swapping in south korea to nigeria ) . i failed to devise these groupings ; nonetheless , i came together to join them having produced the bbc radio documentary on mint countries in 2014 . eight years later , the fog economies still have an opportunity to account for about 2-3 % of world gdp in the future . at each rate , they were keeping up on earlier points that i raised ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey had each account for more than 1 % of world gdp .
american intelligence agencies cautioned president barack obama against tactics in russia and warned of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama remained reluctant to cry out against russia publicly , or to take forceful action on fear that russia would escalate by attacking elections machinery or voting rolls and jeopardizing hillary clinton ’s expected victory . and , because us president donald trump treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration has also failed to take strong action . after the election , although obama went public and expelled russian spies and closed some of his diplomatic facilities , the weakness of america ’s response undercut any deterrence . his brilliance of russia ’s information-warfare innovation was to combine existing technologies with a level of deniability that remains just beneath the overt attack threshold .
cambridge – this year , ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has shaken up the way the campaign is conducted , how a nominee communicates with voters , and the republican party a platform with many of its positions diverge from gop tradition . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s proclaimed positions risks being rendered meaningless by a few hours . he is changing his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after they made them right . but on tax policy , trump has toed his party line .
and it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in the internal politics of western democracies , using the leaks of sensitive documents and funding of right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump to us support for the kremlin . moreover , the ukraine crisis is far removed : minsk ceasefire agreements are imperiled , and armed conflict can escalate on a matter of time . then there is russia ’s ’s ’s role in syria as well . russia has withdrawn from numerous nuclear agreements , and the kremlin has recently placed iskander missiles that can transport medium-range nuclear devices in kaliningrad near the polish border . this year alone , sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened .
but a deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking , given that china ’s swift emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s main national-security issue . so it appears that us friends are again friends or perhaps only debase before the dispute resumes . why is it so , does its seem to despise the eu so profoundly ? why should america try to undermine europe , rather than pursue closer cooperation in order to protect its own economic and geopolitical interests ?
the report ’s product of a few months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community identifies germany ’s contemporary values and interests as committed to achieving “ human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order underpinned by universal norms . ” as gauck has proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective , ” must be the “ preservation and continued adaptation ” ” ” ” of that order . to meet that goal , germany must become a “ shaping of power , ” ” a state with the capacity to resolve problems and resolve conflicts affecting every or a part of the international community . the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to those of other states , geography , demography , economic heft , and military , coupled with resource availability and technological proficiency remain important ; but they are often inadequate to confer actual influence in international politics . shaping power is builds relationships , and invests in institutions that enable it to work well with others , and to build and mobilize ” coalitions and networks of like-minded states .
and he has implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to help poland in its diversification of its gas supply . with his behavior at stake , trump has managed to attract enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not only from pis-curated thrones , owing in part to his public greeting of opposition leader lech wałęsa , booing pis supporters and remaining the constant destination for jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even tymoshenko , a former foreign minister , and an outspoken critic of the pis government , recently concluded , “ i believe trump ’s ’s ’s ’s speech was very good . ” he has not utter a single negative word for europe , germany or france . he has made a strong allusions to poland ’s populist history , and has been extremely flattering to the us as poles .
add to that china ’s other strengths with annual gdp more than $ 10 trillion – a growth rate of at least four percentage points above the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a saving rate of more than 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and the exchange-rate crisis looks highly unlikely . but this does not mean that there are no risks , either . on the contrary , the chinese have a strong interest in curbing gdp volatility , and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . given that all of this activity takes place in a offshore renminbi market – which is small in scale , and has only limited connections to mainland china to the us financial system , the result of china ’s hesitancy on financial-market and capital-account convertibility – the situation remains controllable . the key will be to getting markets and policymakers up the same page .
many polish bishops almost openly proclaim to their flock : you are supposed to listen rather than think or argue . faith is a matter of heart , and it is a thing of heart . if your behavior is good – ie , you do not drink , beat your wife , and , of course , give the money to the church – you are fine . in a churlish feature of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” looks startling . even young men study for priesthood receive very weak philosophical training , and is doing purposefully .
for the last 13 years , the turkish government has proved itself the primary guarantor of freedom of speech , particularly through its reform of the judiciary . like all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular profession – including journalists – are given no form of immunity from these kinds of serious criminal charges . furthermore , it is important to note that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are published in turkey , with total daily circulation of nearly five million copies . freedom of expression and the press ensures turkey ’s constitution and statutes . for the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor opposition over government .
true , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just this in the south china sea . but these countries would be as wise to signal to china that they are welcome to assume its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and on the basis of a set of rules laid out for all . true , nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can no longer allow itself to become a rapidly rising standard of living . the us and others will need to push back , however , to make sure that china does n’t act on that temptation alone . but the bigger policy choices will be made in china .
( little bubbles , in the prices of , say , individual stocks do all that time , and do not qualify as a answer to that question . ) large speculative bubbles are rare events , and these sources are when they occur . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by a variety of interpersonal humiliations . a bubble forms when a rate of contagion goes hand-in-hand with ideas supporting a bubble . but contagion rates depend on patterns of thinking that become hard to judge .
the great communist experiment is virtually ending ( saving for some holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . the past half-century has shown that while development is possible , it is not inevitable . the past half-century has proven that , while development is possible , it is not inevitable . socialism had its day in court , and was found wanting . the right-leaning ideology , as represented by the washington consensus of neoliberal , market fundamentalism , was not much more successful , even if the setbacks often go unacknowledged .
there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s micro-targeting operation in the 2016 american presidential race played a decisive role in core states ’ need to win the electoral college . as populists well know , they are notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to the hardship registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and overly sophisticated absentee-voting practices . micro-targeting has proven most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at the dissuaded people from voting altogether . second , with intra-european migration on the rise , almost 15 million europeans are residing in eu countries other than in their own . by conducting or purchasing large voter data sets , campaigns can segment voters into strategic clusters that use complicated algorithms , then delivering personalized online content to some susceptible voters .
even if the chinese authorities manage to achieve full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that they would really become a global reserve currency , for the simple reason that the reserve currency is not easy to establish at all . at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to build claims against china – at least not on the scale required for a viable asian reserve currency . indeed , more than three centuries of economic globalization have dominated only three “ currency ” currencies : the british pound , the us dollar , and the american dollar . likewise , it is perhaps no accident that the global financial centers and reserve-currency status have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established , and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination . although the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and japan ’s yen have all offered viable alternatives to the dollar since world war ii , often lending for better value stores that are less prone to disinflation , none has made sustained inroads into a dollar of global foreign-exchange reserves .
when contemplating which lessons of germany ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what the government can do and what remains the responsibility of business , workers , and societies at large . one area where the government is clearly in charge is public finance . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit approaching 4 % of gdp – possibly not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average at that time . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries run deficits that are higher than germany ’s ten years ago . a turnabout in germany ’s public finances was largely due to spending cuts .
and when we can no longer count on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test in the real world using massive volumes of real-time data . that involves moving beyond the closed , question-and-answer process typical of a lab and applying our ideas within society , time , and earlier and frequently than ever . an example of such living laboratory is the “ open data town , ” ” ” ” ” ” which i launched with the town of trento in italy , along with telecom harfónica , research university fondazione bruno kessler , the designed data driven by designs , and local companies . importantly , this living lab has the consent and informed consent of all involved ; they understand that they are participating in a gigantic experiment , whose goal is to create better ways of living . to see how things work in reality , we need to construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try new ways of doing things ( acting blunt , acting like guinea ) .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . but the manner in which europe is the policy toolkit at this year ’s selection suggests that it does n’t bode well for the exercising power abroad . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it needs to capitalize on economic policies to reach its geopolitical
to fix the rooftop , we may need to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . canberra – the trade-offs are an inherent component of living . all of us recognize this from our private budgets , and we know it . when we pick a cheaper wine , dessert might be an splurge . trade-offs also pervade ecological politics : cutting more of one pollutant ; for example , leaving fewer resources to tackle other issues .
london – british elections , called of prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s politics and its relations with europe , but not necessarily in the manner that a vastly elevated majority for may ’s conservative party seems to imply . a scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics would expect to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by labour ’s daily attorney general on may ’s election announcement : “ crush the saboteurs . ” but june ’s resounding triumph could ultimately lead to an even more stunning reversal , such as napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow , after he broke all the opposition in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could perpetuate a victory from the jaws of defeat for three interrelated related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british general election in march , may effectively extended the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from 2019 to 2022 .
it is more than curiously to argue that the rest of the world needs to cope with a built-in advantage to china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change at all . in fact , it is more than curious to argue that the rest of the world needs to deal with a built-in advantage to china ’s exporters , because their authoritarian political system can not cope with any sort of change . after all , perhaps we get very good fortune that things ’re not getting worse . elsewhere , this turmoil does have a democratic security valves . from east to west , politics appears to be operating , in some ways , diplomatic , suboptimal .
princeton – the european union ’s largest unaddressed issue is mobility . ever since the united kingdom ’s single act of 1986 removed working restrictions on other eu member countries , the continent has gone from a single labor market to a single one , at least in theory . the process of integration was intended to make it easy and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another . by this vision , the eu ’s inhabitants had a nation that lost and the continent it meant to gain . but some recent electoral outcomes indicate that they are more worried about losing a nation .
but rising animosity among eurozone member states , together with the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries , means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous – in the eu . a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have greater say . a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives hold larger say . with no-bailout rule reformed , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and to respond to voters ’ changing priorities . common political institutions , accountable to voters across the eurozone , would give the ecb a democratic fiscal counterpart , helping cage german power .
bogota , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is as necessary as is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g20 became the primary forum to agree on fundamental principles in areas like fiscal-policy responses and the international monetary fund ’s role . in these respects , the g-20 was clearly a step forward in the process . lately , though , as the g-20 sought to reconcile different national economic interests and strategies of recovery , it was far less successful relative to its initial meetings in washington and london in 2009 . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it has also put some of the pressure on governments regarding what not to do .
cambridge – back in august , the us business roundtable , which comprises america ’s chief executive officers – with combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion dollars , updated its longstanding pronouncements on corporate purposes . it is not just shareholders , ceos say , that their firms need to be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , communities , and the environment . in fact , the shareholders have came last on ceos for ceos ’ new lists . and the statement by the principal author , in his apparent exhilaration , is reported to have said that he feels like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
this suggests that the underlying depression of the physiological processes – those that may also lead to structural change in the brain – are not being totally arrested , making a new generation of anti-depressant medications urgent . if it were , novel antidepressants will be required to target what appears to be the progressive , neurodegenerative changes in the brain that we infer are taking place , because depression recurrence is so high under today ’s available therapies . for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which is impeded by acute , chronic stress , is elevated to a number of antidepressant therapies . still , one of the problems for many current medications is that , even with treatment , a recurrence of a major depression keeps extremely high – around 70-80 % – very high . lithium , a star stabilizer and a neuro-protection agent , has the properties that we seek , though its toxicity make it less than ideal .
tiger parenting aims to get children to make the most of what their skills have , and so appears lean toward “ a clever ” side of a “ clever or happy ” choice . that ’s also the view of betty ming liu , who blogged in reaction to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua are a reason for having asian-americans like me to be compensated . chua would reply that reaching the lofty level of achievement brings major gratification , and that the only way is to do so is through hard work . that , he believes , is an important factor holding back family pressure . stanley sue , a college psychology professor at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide , which is especially common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) .
one is that a surprise number of populist leaders in recent years have so far managed to shake themselves into power in power . at the same time , many more names in the real world could be added to the list . majority enter the political scene from france but manage to form a highly personalized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie le pen and his french nationalists , jean-marie lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . at the same time , the list tells us two things . to some extent , both are individual like president hugo chávez of venezuela ( as well as other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s ex-prime minister silvio berlusconi . a large number of other names might well be added to the list .
so one of the bill ’s “ unintended consequences ” might be to add recruits to married ranks , even if those recruits are historically uncommon . after far soul-searching , i voted to the bill , albeit without a acute sense that i have been striking for freedom . families have fewer and fewer children , wedlock in more and more and less children . fewer and fewer people bothering to marry , and marriage is deemed to be less and less like a lifelong union . clearly , status benefits the minority ; no obvious harm is done to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are ubiquitous .
setting the right example is another critical form of leaders ’ communications . ronald reagan was a master of the well chosen anecdote . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo raising himself . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama turned out to be a talented communicator . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily cut salaries as a means of communicating concern to their employees and the views of public companies .
with the g-7 leaders committed , in a recent joint declaration to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for a more inclusive g-20 , and china , because it chairs the group for the first time – to take the fight to next level . indeed , by 2050 , ten million people could die due to amr , up from about 700,000 today , with china and india effectively each housing some one million sufferers . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already be lost . london – which is also becoming more ineffective , not only at fighting common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infection – is also on treating an array of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that now risk becoming incurable . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality , or their countries ’ level of development .
forgetting that history might doom china to repeat the mistakes of its past ; but , for better or worse , it could ease constraints and establish its leaders in free fall . sydney – the appointment of 1,five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs general in early december serves a stark reminder that the ascension to china ’s next generation of leaders to take power in 2012 is perhaps the most significant development in chinese policy since deng xiaoping ’s rule began in 1978 . looking ahead , the upcoming generation of leaders will come first with little or no personal memory for the turmoil and hardship endured during mao zedong ’s years . all five of them were born after the people ’s founding in 1949 . two of them , hu chunhua and solar zhengcai , are just 46 years old .
in this set of potential outcomes , one point stands out : uncertainty about europe ’s role in a future global system . finally , in greece , there is the scenario of chaos . first , eu leaders must identify how to resolve europe ’s crisis . first , eu leaders must identify how to resolve europe ’s crisis . a “ cyber superbug , ” for example , destroys the networks on which our paths of life became dependent , leading to a major economic , demographic , and ecological collapse .
but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , combined with negative interest rates , caused beleaguered financial institutions to fall , leading to another pro-cyclical doom of value via price deflation , growing illiquidity , and crowded exits . america ’s dollar is a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort . past experience has taught china its true engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reform , not easy money and competitive devaluation . the question now is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . if they do not , why should asia ’s net lenders , especially from china , continue financing speculation against itself ?
and good business deals – with new cars smuggled in through tunnels , beneath the “ philadelphia phi route ” route ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that runs along the egyptian frontier . but the real live , too , is a traumatic and restricted issue . homes are riddled with bullet holes , and 10 % are always allowed to lost money . there is no electricity that as many as eight hours per day can get to no electricity . we have seen the buildings – not just hamas ’s former headquarters – still going into rubble .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy over the next decade or so . china and hong kong have seen prices float recently , too . but , unlike their backward-looking military-based military strategy , flawed monetary policies produce inevitable damage rather than mere worrisome risks . despite having resumed inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and as a result may fail to confront the most recent economic menace – global deflation . many central bankers are like the proverbial general who envisages war through the most recent war .
this clearly is on america ’s agenda , particularly that of the neoconservative doyen john bolton back in the white house as national security advisor . in fact , the world must steadfastly resist the further ruinous american military adventure in the us . even if america ’s current absents alone from the jcpoa , that has only two means of blocking rather than pursuing the agreement between iran and the outside world . simply put , the former would have been to foment war . extraterritorial sanctions are the second way that america could well kill the jcpoa .
it was probably in reaction to that impasse , which china has pressed ahead with establishing the aiib . critics of america ’s policy point that , even as america thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , it is likely that china will still project power in asia and around the world , one way or another . the magnitude of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – speaks to a reality that can no longer be wished away . a strategy of containment has worked well for america and its allies during the cold war ; but it can not be applied today without flexibility and strategic common purpose . channeling that influence through a newly-created international organization , they argue , is more likely to temper raw power grabs .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said a lot of foreign affairs without actually saying anything in all of them . he thinks in terms of immediate profits and losses , a worldview exemplified by his statements that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . trump is a businessman , not a statesmanlike . his quixotic statements offer little insight into what sort of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear , that is what the united states – or the world – needs .
global multinational companies are the largest business-sector r & d investors in the us and other oecd countries . and u.s. multinationals still locate about 84 % of their american r & d activities within the us over the past decade , often within innovation clusters around their research universities . but business investment in gdp as a share of gdp has changed very little in the us during the past decade , while it has risen briskly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . for example , multinational firms , either headquartered in american or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , about the same as ten years earlier . in 2009 , enterprise accounted for 75 % of us r & d financing in japan , compared to 72 % in south korea , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies are the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spend more than twice that of japanese firms .
beijing – as measured by the percentage of people living in their cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at about 48 % , according to official statistics . given that city dwellers ’ share of gdp was just 18 % 30 years ago ; this is notable progress . but it remains unsatisfactory , given that most other countries on a similar stage of development have experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . another striking disparity between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , big and small , lack any sign of meaningful urban poverty or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged far behind its industrialization , which now stands at about 70 % , when measured by a percentage of labor force , whose income comes mostly from non-farm activities .
implementing democracy with or without regime change was the only alternative to the chaos and rise of fundamentalism . today , there may be iraq that is on the brink of civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran under a new and more radical president is mudirresistibly 's efforts to accomplish its own nuclear capacities . a free electoral process brought hamas to power in palestine , and the hapless episode of a danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the almost combustible brand of relations between islamist and the west . all of these developments concur the means to new interpretations .
last january , lula visited israel with a string of prominent brazilian businessmen , and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . this has made it easier for lula to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , much like march 2008 backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador that killed farc commander raul reyes . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , calderón , and lula have no intention of letting chávez take the lead . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic influence , because things have started to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl . calderón ’s non-violent track record on narcotics dealers in mexico , an unrelenting offensive that follows a precedent set by uribe in his dealings with the farc , has also been helped because economic growth has muted domestic opposition .
the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-ukrainian president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine enter a customs union with russia , in exchange for a storefront of its currency and inexpensive oil and natural gas . before our eyes , a tragedy in several acts is unfolding , one in which the players and their goal are obvious . russian president vladimir putin seemed to have achieved his political ends , namely to bring ukraine , which had been drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet era , back firmly back to the kremlin ’s ’s sphere of influence . what is not known is how much further deeds this sad political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how – it ends .
most experts agree that a treaty of global cyberspace would have been politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such suggestions at the un ) . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and broadly shared expectations about sound behavior among a group ( which creates some common law ) . in addition , such constraints can vary from being global to plurilateral to bilateral . though the number of players has surged from the original 15 to 25 , most countries have no voice at all . but there is an larger question lurking behind the gge : could norms truly curtail popular behavior ?
nonetheless , monetary policy creates a far more awkward , indirect , and imprecise path of selecting winners and losers than fiscal policy . think of the different effects of interest rates on borrowers versus creditors . independent central banks can sometimes be a pain for politicians , but they can at least be employed like scapegoats , when necessitates a role whose policy benefits circumvent the costs of losing control over a useful tool . to be sure , monetary policy also has redistributive effects . such considerations should guide the choice of what follows the european stability pact .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , lending , and the supply of money would grow more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise credit reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . indeed , china ’s housing prices have been skyrocketing in the last few months . the government has been far too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and , overwhelmed by fears of the damaging impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , has been far too wary of dealing with bubbles when they reappear . unlike america , china suffered from liquidity shortages and credit crunch during the global financial crisis . consequently , low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than demand from enterprises , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing a total objective .
erdogan ’s islamic revolution , too , has expanded his educational system , with the introduction of a markedly religious curriculum . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made the underwriter an arabic obligatory teaching in schools . now , constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb its army ’s role as the custodian of the secular state and enhance government control of the judiciary . erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also broadened to the educational system , with the introduction of a markedly religious curriculum . looking ahead , erdogan believes that by exercising turkey ’s mediation capacity , he will recover its ottoman forbears ’ burden on peace and security in the mashreq .
they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration that came to fruition a generation later . having remained skeptical of notions of irreversible progress , he argued . european integration thus had to be crafted by actual policies and institutions , rather than decree . change for the better could emerge from practical initiatives , not from sunday ’s speeches . so did he and giscard created the council of europe ( comprising the heads of states of europe ’s governments ) , which is now a leading player in europe ’s institutional struggles .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the status quo for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may soon will be ousted could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that the political conditions it is certain to stabilize as soon as a period for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship widens again from a new , extremely soft , april 12 deadline until at least a year or beyond . to britain , the prospects are suddenly far clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 .
after the irish “ no , ” ” ” ” can the union find salvation in nato the vision of a “ coalition of the willing ” ? of course , an irish “ no ” is not the equivalent of the eu as a matter of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . but it also represents a major setback and a distinctive institutional , political , and even psychological essence . it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” ” ” ” ” ” and jacques delors ’s suggestion of a “ united nations of europe ” have remained too ambivalent , if not deliberately ambiguous , to be effective . can the most resolute pro-integration europeans abandon the pack without becoming paralyzed by a reluctant coalition ?
the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state in the middle east and the outside world can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what is needed , too , is a dose of realism . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war , but it is a potentially dangerous one . the us can not eradicate or destroy the anytime soon , as is so many networking and vision , for it is an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources . indeed , the issue of terrorism is and will continue to be one of that era ’s scourges .
failing that , the left is coming to power , reversing years of reform and progress . mexico ’s economy has held a good few years now ; not terribly hard to achieve , given a booming america next door , and a great liquidity squeeze on global capital markets . mexico ’s own skillful success for rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance , as was the determination to hang on , and even to widen , reform of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , president sherilla . but a currency board will also help launch financial intermediation to the benefit of small and medium-size firms , who were starved of capital by the experiences of recurrent crises and bad loans . small and medium-size enterprises need to become part of mexican capitalism .
it is , in part , self-defense , an expression of the rule of law under challenging circumstances , and partly a constructive effort to redress the underlying causes of its frustration . fighting an al qaeda is not , therefore , a war ; it is a way to go about it . it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . people who are suspended between a losing past and a future have not yet gained in need . such assistance will yield no immediate results , but awareness of the medium term – meaning readiness to confront it by delaying instant gratification – is also a mark of the liberal order .
groups such as the syrian national council are loose associations of individuals and groups , many outside of syria . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups within syria that are both equally heterogeneous and divided . these are groups that are criticized by the obama administration and others for their failure to present the united front , formulating a credible agenda , or being viewed as a viable alternative to the current regimes . it is among these groups that have brought radical islamists to their foothold . the fear of a another islamist takeover amounts to a second major argument against toppling assad , but the longer he remains in power , the greater the gains that islamists have made on the ground .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by capturing the hearts and minds of regulators , and by politicians on both sides of the aisle , having given a narrow private-sector elite – mostly in wall street – the nearly all the upside of a housing boom . but they are now paying a price for it . the downside has shoved to the rest of society , particularly the relatively ill-uneducated and underserved that now bedeviled their homes , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or all the above . but this was not the case for over-regulating and over-reaching . nor did these people trigger the crisis , and the opportunity for them is good for them .
indeed , unemployment stands at roughly 11 % , with record-high by 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . french leaders have shown the inability of people to communicate effectively or to apply past experience in analyzing contemporary threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical flourishes about minor controversies . the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has generated large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small and medium-size firms . at the same time , a political crisis hinders government ’s pursuit of difficult reforms .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has a lot of cause to celebrate : extreme poverty finally appears in retreat . but it is high time that india , having consolidated its aspirations , is on the rise . to that end , much remains to be done . escaping abject destitution , while an important milestone , is not the same as attaining a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security . indeed , two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening the economy up , the official rate of poverty reached an average of 22 % , below half that in 1994 .
if that does not change any time soon , maybe we , as then-british prime minister david lloyd georgians wrote of world war i , will “ [ muddle through ] war once again ” – and yet again we should n’t . but why should n’t america ’s senior diplomat wield significant influence over military affairs ? south korea ’s political leaders , too , must avoid becoming bogged down in this intensifying war rhetoric . once the march to war broke out , little room has been left for diplomacy . and yet , far from producing space for diplomacy , trump ’s advisor sebastian gorka recently told the press that , “ the thinking that secretary tillerson intends to debate military issues is simply nonsensical .
alemán also faces a rebellion within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular vote in the liberal wing of the party . while a three-way race race is clean on this point , it certainly does seem to offer ortega the best of all the electoral anywhere in the world . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc , and pushes him over another political party , ortega ’s chances to win the presidency are rising sharply . business interests who bankroll the political campaign are facing a difficult dilemma : are it preferable to align with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán , or support for a new democratic force and risk helping ortega win ? it is so tempting that ortega probably can help to rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his political interests .
but , whereas for keynes , the key was to maintain the sum of government spending and private-investment stable , for friedman ’s key was to keep the money supply -- the quantity of purchasing power in readily spendable form in corporate and households ’ hands -- stable . a relatively minor technical distinction in the way , per se , one might say , . a difference of opinion , which rested on various judgments on how the world works , that could ( and would ultimately be ) be resolved through empirical research , might be sensible . and you would have been a half right , to say the least . friedman and keynes both argued that successful macroeconomic management was necessary -- that a private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability , and that strategic , powerful but limited government economic intervention was essential to maintaining stability .
the prospect of american monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . the euro runs down 8 % against the dollar in the first half of this year , and the yen is still down 14 % against the dollar . but speculators think ahead and are shifting against commodities today in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the effect , next year , was to push the price level forward for today . fourth of upward channels , exchange rates are already functioning . the result has been dollar appreciation against the euro and yen .
i am well aware that judge goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human rights attorney , and advocate for a shared similar fear when he was initially approaching . he was also aware that the un human rights council had repeatedly placed condemnations of israel over the last two years , but that he had devoted very little attention to large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . it was this pattern of activism , and inaction , that the council gave greater credence to those who believed that the un ’s top human-rights body was inherently anti-israel . but it was able to work with the council ’s president to secure an agreement that he sensed that it would grant the mandate to be interpreted in such a way as a way as a means to enable his team to address actions that the two parties were bringing into conflict . i decided that i was unable to commit the mission on these counts .
though in theory communism aimed at establishing a system of class righteousness , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , widespread censorship , and ubiquitous informants . the net effect of these brutal actions was a widespread loss of faith . during the early cold war , both communism and the soviet union had considerable soft power . many communists led opposition against fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was the wave of the future . but soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin ’s crimes in 1956 and again in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 .
coronado , california – most people do not think of charles darwin as the psychologist . in fact , his work has revolutionized the field . before darwin , a philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding of islam . but even the great philosophers , plato , aristotle , hobbes , humor , locke , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others , could just describe current mental events and patterns ; they can not explain their causes . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution has influenced the shape of our minds as profoundly as it shapes our bodies .
as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , pointed out in a thoughtful journal medical school : “ one can recognize good science , as it happens , but significant science can be seen only in a rear-view mirror . ” even preeminent researchers may underestimate the significance of their findings at the time that they obtain . indeed , assessing the impact of any research project is challenging . when salvador luria , a university of micro biology professor , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , sent the humorous cartoon for all who congratulated him at a prize . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table .
america ’s tax code , for its part , was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it is wrong to have paid a lower tax rate than his secretary . a new law makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is a core economic challenge in the united states , with those at the top capturing almost all of gdp gains over the last quarter-century . and , with full force ( made in 2027 ) , it will raise taxes for a majority of americans to the middle class ( the second , third , and fourth quintiles ) .
california , an american state with more than two million independent contractors , has attempted to resolve that question with a new law , california assembly bill 5 , which codifies legal criteria for determining how to categorize workers . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , legislators exempted many kinds of independent contractors – like doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 lends to the more than 400,000 workers who drive for platform companies , such as the ride-sharing service uber and lyft , and the food-delivery firm doordash . a critical issue now confronting the policymakers is whether gig workers are expected to be categorized as independent contractors , or as platform companies ’ employees , with which they have jobs contracts , and for whose customers they provide the services they provide . applying the three-piece “ abc test ” ” ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for firms to categorize their workers as independent contractors , rather than for workers .
making matters worse , modi ’s government has , for the first time ever , invoked section 7 of the rbi act of allowing it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on public-sector matters . the government is particularly unhappy with rbi action to clear india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a huge volume of non-performing assets and prevent risks to build up in other parts of the financial system . as a result , these measures are squeezing state-owned banks with the capacity to lend to politically well-connected clients . modi ’s government ’s willingness to go to such lengths indicates that more than interest rates are at stake . of course , government ministers can not come right .
to be sure , abe failed to confront the type of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did . still , with the exception of junichiro koizumi ’s promised little and achieved little , japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe will follow through on his promises . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign has lacked ambition ; he has set out a bold , economic-reform agenda , and pledged to boost japan ’s quest for global influence . to be sure , abe has not faced up to the type of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did . it is as if abe ’s 2012 campaign has lacked ambition ; he is setting up a bold , economic-reform agenda and promises to boost japan ’s lack of global influence .
in many such patients , doubling down on a dose of plavix , and checking platelet function with point-of-care trials designed to assure suppression , can override the absence of response . the interferon story , given for a single year to engage patients in the hepatitis c virus , is particularly glaring . this genome variation is exceptionally common , present in 30 % of individuals of european ancestry , and more than 50 % of those associated with asian ancestry . those individuals carrying at least one replicability of a gene variant that does not permit the body to metabolize plavix had a 300 % higher risk of clotting stent . there are alternative drugs such as prasugrel or ticagrelor ticagrelor , to be used instead of plavix to circumvent the problem .
repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where the drug cartels are tearing apart a country and the us , the world ’s largest source of demand . west africa would also be affected , becoming , in recent years , a major transit point for the south american drug headed in europe . after all , war , in colombia , and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while peace divides them . if chávez ’s venezuelan regime became a narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects its privileged relationships with the farc . the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s borders .
at its heart lies the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investment aimed at the world ’s poorest . keynesian , though , is that the budget simply does not rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . the second pillar of poverty-reduction policies is to rely on investment to shift to the poor – especially to the rural poor . to do so , the budget thus supports critical areas of market and growth promotion , including measures aimed at deepening the financial sector , promoting exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment . rapid economic growth works to the private sector , including through foreign direct investment .
among frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran and israel . the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to western governments . in the middle east , countries are trying to figure out who should be contained . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer obviously is iran . in reality , exaggeration to overstate the threats of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the menace of right-wing populism there , it might well play directly into russian president vladimir putin ’s hands .
cambridge – american treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on on every side . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are nothing more than a forum for making unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who like his boss – persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms , such as open trade – be pursuing everyone ’s interests ? domestically , he is trapped between the promises he has made ( such as the “ mnuchin rule ” that taxes would not cut off for the rich ) , president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan involves cutbacks for the wealthy ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . yet even on the international stage , where american treasury secretaries also typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have hard times . after all , it was the trump administration that made it clear that it had no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors .
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreement reached in paris this month at the united nations climate change conference ? some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not commit steadfast to limiting global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels until 2050 . but such a commitment would not have been credible . what emerged in paris was actually a better option , because negotiators managed to agree on practical steps in the right direction . no sooner was an agreement announced on december 12 than the debate erupted .
muslim professionals , fearing for their security , began to migrate to ghettos . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began moving into public-social zones where the state failed dismally , particularly education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school . unfortunately , they have been educated in the religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . with discrimination soon cut off across class lines , rising numbers of indian muslims have begun to look for connections to muslim communities elsewhere around the world .
what workers do not protest against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but against no job in socialist shenyang . today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than state-owned enterprises ( soes ) do . with a fraction of the soes ’ resources , private firms employ much of the proletariat , producing goods that are demanded by proletarian consumers , and because of their superior performance , safeguard proletarian savers ’ interests by genuinely paying back their bank credit . to be sure , workers do not protest menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but against no job in socialist shenyang . the government can not pay unemployed workers their pensions , because socialism discredited its finance .
but , while we can see inequality and club-level exclusion from club-level football , the opposite is true for contests among national teams . the average margin among the top eight world cup national teams has declined steadily , from more than two goals in the 1950 ’s to around 1.5 goals in the 1960s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , to just 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same is true for every games played at the final tournament , and not only those among the top eight national teams . the decrease in winning margin is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams , many of them new and rather inexperienced . affluent or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning a european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , a red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third divide ) once did .
in fact , the us budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the “ blue chip ” one , in which interest-rate hikes remain low but gdp growth ambles along at about 2 % . meanwhile , in the omb , a real-interest rate on three-month us treasuries is forecast to remain below 1 % for a decade or more . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining at or near record-low lows , a pegged long-run growth pattern , as administration forecasts suggest , would be historically anomalous . moreover , in that projection , the broadest term premium disappears almost completely . currently , often-surly treasuries offer more than threefold a yield on three month ’s us treasuries .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics that berlusconi achieved , just as it was the institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s last acts was the replacement of a majoritarian electoral system introduced in 1993 with proportional rule . a new electoral system transformed incentives for politicians and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and volatile governments . under new electoral rules , seats are allotted to parties on a proportion to vote , but a peculiar provision induces parties to forge preelectoral deals : an early electoral coalition that wins the most votes receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the underhouse ) . that outcome would be accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself were to distance himself from politics in the upcoming electoral term .
though the current rate of 7 % is comfortable , it is far below the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . and it has had a certain success – to the detriment of economic growth . given the need for more economic restructuring , and given longer-term demographic trends that will constrain the labor supply side , pre-2008 growth rates are not likely to rebound . that is fine with li , who recognizes that a structural transformation and a industrial upgrading can not an unsustainable , credit-led growth model – the key to achieving high-income status . yet there is much more to judge wen ’s stimulus than grown-reform trade-off .
we need to make sure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased impact of climate change , and to develop clear global standards of disclosing the climate risks that investment projects present . the climate challenge demands a much deeper level of collaboration between the public and private sectors to boost green investment . big and small investors alike should be aware precisely how their money might be influenced by the changing climate . how , for example , will municipal wealth be able to cope with increased flood risk and how will farmland be maintained productively as droughts become more severe ? here , public investment institutions like the european investment bank can help adapt in a variety of ways .
“ more than half of this battle takes place on a media battlefield [ for ] we find ourselves in a media battle in a race to the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . ” the speaker was not some public-relations executive ; but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri , was a member of the newspaper . consider that violent extremists have their own “ media relationships committees , ” aimed at manipulating elite opinion . they are planning and designing headings using every means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of free people . terrorists have adapted skillfully to fighting wars in today ’s media age , but for most of the american and other democracies did not .
all of this explains why sulpicio lines , owner of the stars ’ princess , remained in commercial operations , despite its many lapses . simply put , philippine courts have not made it costly to maintain non-seaworthy vessels . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civilian claims on environmental tort tort and human-rights abuses before american us courts to disclose just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those who behaved negligently , or with impunity . to be sure , exemplary and punitive damages in order to discourage actions inimical to a society will exist under the statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damage awards as an instrument to control behavior , especially by businessmen .
all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments angry . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany has behaved more like a “ preoccupation officer ” than a us diplomat . but , fueling anger , trump ’s assaults on other countries ’ sovereignty adds momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europe finds itself in the midst of internal economic crisis , owing to saddling southern european countries with high-inflation records following the 2008 financial crash , which severely impaired their competitiveness within the european system . consider the legislation that will allow the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms engaging in the project , despite those firms contractually obliged to see the job through .
it is surely handy to treat travel from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport checks to contend with departure and arrival . and it is undoubtedly convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at every border crosses . indeed , that comfort is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) opt out of schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring both domestic and eu territories without border controls . all have revoked controls on their shared borders , and have enacted a common visa policy for non-member countries ’ citizens .
a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . europeans have become addicted to such societies , all of which is based in either china or the americas . such cooperation is vital to the fight against terrorism , human trafficking , and migration , and it can be lost . defining such a strategy might well help europeans identify the areas for their mutual accommodation . yet , over time , europe has focused more on enforcing shared values in the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data-privacy regulations – than on developing a long-term strategy to become a competitive society .
the us federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks , while enabling hundreds of those crucially important , smaller lenders to fail . but the lending would still be inhibited even to make the banks any healthier . just adding liquidity , while pursuing the current policies of austerity , will not reignite the spanish economy . so , too , in the us , the smaller banks that largely finance small and medium-size firms have been all but overlooked . after all , with small enterprises relying on collateral-based lending , and with the value of their property , a key form of collateral has still been down one-third of its pre-crisis levels .
the world learned this lesson after the 1973 arab-israel war . oil is a fungible commodity , with markets clear-cut at a shared price . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed out of oil sales to the american and netherlands to punish them for their support of israel . but oil destined for the us and the netherlands shifted to other countries such as japan , while oil destined for other countries discovered its way to the us and the netherlands . when the dust settled , american , dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same level of shortcoming and paid an equally damaging high price .
the world has been horrified at graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown on military junta there . but the bullets and clubs that are unleashed by buddhist monks have been working to do so . that crackdown continue under the cover of darkness . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear rises . the monks have withdrawn and eerie normalcy returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s essential city and former capital .
indeed , until the mid-1990s , governments ’ lack of macroeconomic discipline , and their inclination to succumb to populist demands and vested interests , accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s , or can sustain an present approach , founded on national responsibility , and sanctions-breaking sanctions . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that such sanctions should include making them expulsion from the eurozone , something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . nor , of course , has greece ever been so committed to confronting its current economic trauma . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance following the oil shock of the early 1970s was peddled , marked by sluggish growth , high inflation , and unemployment , massive fiscal deficits , rising debt , a collapsing currency , and insufficient infrastructure .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electrical power , long-distance communications , advanced information processing , and the like . again , it would be ludicrously expensive , or simply impossible – to achieve similar capabilities in earlier periods of history . in the late roman empire , only affluent aristocrat could have bought in a kind of nomenclator – slavs tasked with memorizing and faces , and reminding an aristocrat when social time demanded it . in thinking about the future of growth , as well as the opportunities that continued growth would open the way for all of mankind , we should reflect on how far we came . today , with a rudimentary smartphone is preferable to having an entourage of dozens or even thousands , of nomenclator-like aides .
as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , one that – precisely for that reason – will pursue its foreign-policy interests fairly in feckless . the vital interests guiding china policy are internal modernization , a ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and a country ’s unity ( which includes taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for the long term , at least for now . as insofar as this is true , the united states will not be replaced as the champion of power unless and until abdicates that role . that may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century of international order .
the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s crisis set scope for a number of large exchange-rate adjustments . the us dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , increased sharply in value . wages and prices fell , but not enough to enable argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of the agricultural goods that constitutes argentina ’s natural comparative advantage face high hurdles in entering wealthy countries ’ markets . the government pursued fiscal austerity but not sufficient to accommodate the vagaries of markets . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur ’s trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – some say , becoming substantially undervalued .
yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lesson either episode ’s passing . they have not only failed to mitigate risks , underscored in the meltdown of 2007 , that new retail investors introduce into the market ; indeed , they have exacerbated them , by enabling and even encouraging , us investors to leverage their accumulation of margin purchases . when such debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy via household-sector balance sheets , with the contraction in consumption contributing to depressed jobs and private-sector investment . it is far more difficult to find circuit breakers in order to like , say , the balance-sheet distress in the financial sector . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed its repurchase restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises ( soes ) and asset managers to purchase more stocks .
it is the shock , not the adjustment , that spreads throughout the system . yet i doubt that it does have . seventy years ago , at the height of the financial crisis , john maynard keynes was emphasizing its fallacy . faced with this uncertainty , they not readmere expenditures ; instead , they abstain from spending until mists makes it clear that sending the economy into a tailspin . when shocks to a system run down , agents can not know what will happen next .
over the longer term , a majority of economists agree that governments , particularly in the advanced industrial countries with an aging population , should be concerned about the sustainability of their policies . america ’s financial industry has polluted the world with toxic mortgages , and in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle should be imposed on it . besides , well-designed financial-sector taxes may help to ease the problems created by excessive leverage , and too-big-to-fail banks . the financial sector has imposed tremendous externalities on the rest of society . taxes on speculative activity might have an incentive to banks to devote more attention to fulfilling their societal role in providing credit .
so , while these things happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps we analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as carefully as they do to those in bernanke , in an effort to understand the direction in the world ’s stock markets . attitudes toward risks change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s and peres ’s remarks , can precipitate such a change . but public responses to them , together with the recent oil-price spike , can well hold the good measures to change market psychology . there may be little appetite for economists to concentrate on public mindset and how it interacts with price movements , global news stories , and speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies that economic events become less predictable ( and for economists less omniscient ) than they would like to imagine .
new york – in their efforts to pass the american financial system ’s bailout plan , bush ’s administration officials invoked the specter of 1930 ’s great depression . but , for most asians , economic armageddon has been far greater . the asian financial crisis of ten years ago brought the banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . contagion quickly spread throughout east asia , with ripple effects stemming from serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil did . the bonfire triggered the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 .
plato ’s purpose in a dialogue , of course , is not to define piety : when socrates knows of a better definition than the unacceptable offered by the euthyphro , does not reveal it . rather , for plato to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance of piety , and that euthyphro thus can not seriously recognize that prosecuting his father is the right thing to do . the knowledge that arises from this type of self-examination is crucial in any decision . one ought to be aware of the moral nature of any action one is contemplating . and to understand that , one must be as well aware of what one does not know as to what anyone does .
one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water , more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . moreover , water scarcity means food scarcity . in north africa , the encroaching desert has displaced many people and exacerbated tensions between farmers and herders . after all , the agriculture sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with water in short supply , there are fewer farmers than enough to feed the world ’s population . this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century that affected millions of hectares of farmland and caused power shortages .
efficiency soared , placing brazil ’s crop yields at breakneck levels with those from the advanced economies . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth , driven by a massive army of young workers , is ending . recognizing that imperative , there is a first step . emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping policy , incentives , and incumbents to boost productivity . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture , together with encouragement from r & d , has enabled the brazilian agricultural research corporation to pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects , including design , a tropical soybean strain , which can thrive on brazil ’s climate .
second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members are delivering policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members are delivering policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . to be meaningful , the news must be supportive of action : the g-20 ’s members need to demonstrate that their policies are clearly geared toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and that they are fully accountable to meeting their commitments . we are confident that europe will work together to meet these challenges , and will continue to support such efforts , because european stability and growth matter for us all . since the g-20 meeting at cannes last november , for example , europe has raised its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , establishing rules for fiscal discipline , and implementing a range of labor – and product-market reforms .
they need to work with bureaucracies , which are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized , lest they end up as anything less than the number one . but not talking about priorities keeps the need to prioritize go away . whenever we prioritize , we claim not just where we should do more ( which is good ) , but where we should not enhance our efforts ( which is what i view as cynical ) . refusing to prioritize , dealing largely with our most publicized problems is wrong . instead , choices only become less clear , less democratic , and less efficient .
that is true in most eu countries – including in america , where inequality is among the highest in the world – though a few countries , like norway , are where people have a more realistic view . in fact , if the right targets are to be selected , the debate must be a better informed one . that said , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is below what actually is , but still above the levels they would consider the ideal . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s views of the redistributive policy . and the bottom line is not to get lost on endless comparisons or arcane mathematics ; rather , it is to understate the potential – and indeed , indispensable – debate of inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of establishing clear targets .
putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but it was china ’s greatest geostrategic gift imaginable . likewise , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank or company access to america ’s financial system would have created the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately following the fall of communism . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin to base his rule , whose primary claim to leadership is that he ended penury in the first post-soviet years , to pursue his own imperialist aggression would have cost them dearly . third , obama should emphasize the chinese their stake in eurasian stability . those sanctions had already crippled iran ’s economy .
matters have been different for the past two years . many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically ; of course , some have gone out of business altogether . against this backdrop , it is not surprising that paying off in the financial sector has skyrocketed . cities of london , lower manhattan , and a few other centers have become the monetary machines that make investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and privately equity folk immoderately wealthy . university leaders like me have spent a large part of our time persuading them to recycle part of their bargains into their old schools .
in a june meeting , american ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart on news reports that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if the kyrgyz closed the american base . both diplomats had been conversing in russia . the horse-trading surrounding base has been intense . “ visibly flushed , ” ( the chinese ambassador ) has temporarily lost its ability to speak russians , and begun spluttering in the chinese to a silent aide diligently takes comments right after him , ” ” ” according to confidential american diplomatic cables produced by web sites wikileaks.org . indeed , the us policy has spurred pro-russian politicians who would love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them and prevent their resurgence is to ensure that economic opportunities become available to those who are determined to try . in a recent commentary for the burning suburbs , chirac declared , “ we will need to draw all the lessons from this crisis when the time comes and order has been revived , ” and with much courage and lucidity . but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac probably envisage . it is past time that france begin questioning its economic model . after all , social assistance with no hope of an individual improvement is simply not sufficient .
we believe they are faster than the us in acquiring and processing knowledge , for it has grown up through the tools and techniques we have lacked in its old age . we need to study , educate , and practice tolerance , and instill in our children , both through education and our own example . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region , whether sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry merely fuels the fires of rage . we can not , and will not , let this in our country . we entrust them with driving our country toward new levels of growth and development , which are now designated a cabinet minister of their age and formed the special youth council .
in countries with higher prices than in germany , but with similarly borrowing costs , this can not produce anything but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to stem this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible , and it is ridiculous to try it . so how will one tighten fiscal policy to achieve more than 100 % of credit-induced gdp in just three years , as happened in ireland in 2004-2007 , and a sporting fiscal surplus , as ireland was ? to ask policymakers in a democracy with large surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or to public investment by the enormous magnitude needed to stave off catastrophe strikes is to disappear with reality . what we do know is that abnormally low real interest rates produce massive credit expansion .
the problem is that this conspiracy of evasion might not work , and the significance of fischer ’s speech is that he is the first us minister in office to say so publicly , though he pretends to say so in a personal capacity . in the past , undoubtedly , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would together press the case regularly for closer integration , despite british reluctance . nowadays , however , france and germany are less united on a shared european strategy , and their commitment to european integration appears less robust . but the bottom line is that constitutional amendments are possible only through unanimous agreement , and several member governments , starting with the united kingdom , will resist any overtly federalist agenda . as a result , there is a reluctant wish to force a confrontation with the british if there is any chance of softer compromise on the future .
enthusiasts describe this as a new sign of an modern industrial policy that can help brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . the markets for innovation and new ideas are working poorly , and governments can help to address those market failures . to be sure , critics call this a misguided effort – one that creates only more distortions and retard growth . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting demands . to my mind , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is strong .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only factors fueling anti-immigrant sentiment , much less populism more broadly . but the evolutionary psychology that stresses behavioral competition may add another dimension of our understanding of those phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife could erupt . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances on a particular front . but , while the problem can not be “ resolved , ” ” understanding that it may help to curb damaging , not least by enabling leaders to evade policies that either are not helpful , or exacerbate tensions further . those among the native-born population with their lowest incomes and education levels will always be worse off , if it is to be necessary to compete for a significant number of youthful male migrants .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relationships . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling is that the world ’s two largest economies are sinking into a dangerous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency is playing at one of the extremes of the relationship dynamics in a time when the two partners are drawing more from one another than from their own inner strength . while i published a 2014 codependent economic relationship between the us and china , i would first admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assessing national economies ’ behavior .
this is the point on which , until recently , germany begins to use the language that defines europeans by differentiating themselves from the other side of the u.s. -- europeans as europeans as europeans . but how is this identity to be defined ? comparisons and contrasting each party of the atlantic have a long pedigree . throughout the cold war , what was once the soviet union provided the raison d’être of europe ; in an age of globalization , it is america . european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism - these are ancient and tired themes .
without raising national saving – highly unlikely on the basis of america ’s current budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china toward america , with its other trading partners . unfortunately , lighthizer seems as clueless today of the macro argument as it was back then . in both episodes , america was in denial , bordering on delusion . with that trade diversion likely to refashion higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers will be hit by the functional equivalent of a tax hike . ironically , trump cried the very same robert lighthizer , veteran japan ’s trade battles of the 1980s to lead the charge against china .
while the un security council has been outdated in its structure , france still plays a critical role ; and france , not germany , is a member . the french center-left must take the lead in conceiving a vision for europe in which solidarity and equity are causing long-standing economic strength . hollande ’s government and prime minister , jean-marc ayrault , both have powerful majorities at every executive and legislative level , giving it a rare opportunity to act . if it can renew the european model at home , it will project a far more widely shared european one , especially in southern europe , to transform reinforcing the eu ’s trust and faith , especially among the young generation . lastly , along with the united kingdom among european countries , france retains a greater global role than germany has acquired so far .
the third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be strengthening regional arab solidarity . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the arab world ’s “ arab ness . ” but the 2011 revolutions did demonstrate that a robust sense of identity , shared languages , and a much shared history binds the arabs together , despite huge disparities in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . a deep reform – centered on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas – is required to transform the process of learning , unleashing the productivity growth that a young labor force demands . how else can one account for the revolt act in tunisia led to popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ?
attitudes about male caregiving are starting to shift . only one-third of millennial men trust traditional roles on gender . who has a more flexible job at work ? who has a boss or a company that better supports reconciling work and family responsibilities ? america , ’s largest tech companies , are beginning to compete for talent by offering paternity leave . now , who is paying a paternity leave ?
but it also depends on government ’s capacity and willingness to provide a bridging function for under-employment in aggregate demand , pursuing the kind of reforms and investment that boost long-term growth prospects . muted wage growth boosts competitiveness and underutilized labor and capital are being redeployed . how fast this will happen in part depends on private-sector flexibility and dynamism . if public-sector deleveraging is not a policy of full growth , and is not yet a cause of so much attention to fiscal austerity , and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) in growth and employment ? several opportunities , not mutually exclusive , come to mind .
by contrast , at a time when personal situations in many individual americans are scrutinizing through european eyes , extreme individualism , which represents a key component of american optimism , translates into an unacceptable social disaster . journalists report tragic stories of middle-class americans losing their jobs and their houses potentially potentially putting their lives at risk without any welfare protection at all . it is wrong to suppose , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of welfare protections makes you stronger still . “ tents ” fill to victims of the challenges of economic crisis , ” ” ” ” ” ” read one headline a month ago on the front page of massachusetts by american newspapers . who will then pay for your expensive cancer treatments if you lose the health-insurance policies resulting with your work ?
warsaw : recently poland experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . it concentrated on whether to make " free " education a constitutional right . being on the question of their dominance in parliament , the postcommunists ' intransigence on this point force the other political parties , participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution , kowtow to their positions . still , due to their dominance in the parliamentary system , the postcommunists ' intransigence on this point have forced the other political parties , participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution , kowtow to their positions . free or as their postcommunist advocates prefer calls to question it , a " not paid for " educational , " means education in schools and state-owned universities ( but not in private schools ) .
the private sector , too , has a role to play in a shift toward unconventional water resources – a role that must broaden beyond current efforts to soak up desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . best practices should clarify , with innovations identified and tested , and with knowledge and experience shared by knowledge and experience . moreover , governments must clarify the responsibility of national water agencies and improve water-related capacity at all levels to institute large-scale non-conventional-water programs . last but not least , local institutions , local nongovernmental organizations , and local communities will need to be mobilized – for example , through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of exploiting the potential of unconventional water resources . sustainable development goal of six calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation ; but we also need to be mobilized .
as a result , targeting china has overwhelming political appeal . beyond a truce in tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits . american negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of about $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a ten-year frame of conflict . in light of the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , that is largely a senseless objective , particularly given the massive and ill-timed tax cut and the federal expenditure increases that america has enacted over the past six months . so , what is likely to be made of a may 19 agreement ?
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as have serious environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous , rising middle class , alongside those that have yet to benefit from a region ’s rapid economic development – and whose health and well-being are adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift , either . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are achieving economic growth – at lower yet enviable levels of tariffs and improved quality of its prosperity . asia needs strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth that entails the need to rebalance sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional demand .
berkeley – a central insight from macroeconomics nowadays is that john stuart mill was well known for the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large supply-side gap and demand of pretty much all currently produced goods and services , and types of labor , if there were equally large excess demand for financial assets . and there is a root fact in this fundamental fact that it continues to be a source of great trouble . a normal overhang between supply and demand for certain subset of currently produced commodities does not pose a serious problem , because it is equalizing excess demand for other currently produced commodities . as industries suffer from inadequate demand shed labor , industries that profit from the surplus demand hire them . economies are moving up rapidly and thereby return to full employment – and doing so with reconfigurations of employment and production that are better suited to current consumer preferences .
the prosecutions then began to speak out by a young girl like chechen sniper , from the snipers family . in fact , russian liberals initially welcomed the case of budanov , as a sign that a country could address accusations that war crimes was committed in chechnya . last month , however , a us military prosecutor accepted colonel budanov 's argument that he was temporarily insane when a girl killed , leaving so acquitted budanov on the murder charges . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed a prosecutor , ostensibly poised to sullivan the patriotic " hero " on all remaining charges . ( marital charges , for some ambiguous , were already dropped . )
but , of course , the us does not exist in a vacuum . once a team is in place , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has an economy – by necessity rather than a choice – excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the good news is that the incoming us administration may draw on the measures that were formulated during obama ’s first time in office , but that gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics that characterized much of obama ’s eight years in office . such measures address imperatives like investing in infrastructure , tax reform , and job creation . the marshall plan needs to recognize that , during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation issues were distorted , worsening wealth inequality .
washington , dc – just over a hundred years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked – and when the power of such firms should be constrained . in retrospect , then , the breakthrough legislation – not only for america itself , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of the 1890 ’s . prior to the 1890 ’s , great trading was widely viewed as more efficient , and generally more modern , than little business . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill ’s bill for passing the american senate does something similar , and long overhyped , banking . prior to the 1890 ’s , great business was widely viewed as more efficient , and generally more modern than small-business .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down , writing a letter ? i do n’t mean a email or text message ; nor would i count a dictated message by a machine or a person of personal assistant . no , i mean to be old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or , “ dear donald ” letter , or “ dear hillary clinton . ” the reason that i ask is this is that there are 65,000 people actually writing such letters at barack obama each week when he served as president of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a white house team staffers would choose ten letters every day to pass alongside a president who would then react personally to them .
but , ultimately , they would do precisely what they did in every part of the previous four elections – a vote for the party that proclaimed “ every man for himself ” . by 1992 , john major conducted re-election amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of rapid inflation . economic determinists foresaw that he was not standing a chance , at least in office . today , this pseudo theory of economic determinism was once and for all . they might tell pollsters that they were poised to pay higher taxes for better public services , and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor .
transformational goals , and an inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india , or nelson mandela in south africa , can dramatically influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , especially in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . america ’s foreign-policy formation , on the other hand , is actually strongly constrained by institutions like the us congress , courts , and a constitution . indeed , we would thus expect less opportunities for transformational leadership . but even the american constitution is ambiguous about the powers of both the us congress and the president on foreign policy . transactional leadership has become more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style more likely to be shown during periods of rapid , discontinuous , social , and political change .
berlin – it has now been more than 30 years since the united nations ’ food and agriculture organization launched the roadmap for tropical forestry ( redd ) action , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcomes of those two agreements were , ironically , producing the reams of an expensive consultancy . but if world leaders are serious about halting the forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + and replace it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the most recent international efforts to halt it have triggered an initiative – known as the reduction of emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – seem no more likely to prove effective . redd + was created as part of the united nations framework convention on climate change ( unfccc ) , and the treaty that governing its implementation is expected to be finalized by the un framework convention on climate change ( unfccc ) in paris .
it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . but ethiopia poses a dilemma for all concerned with human rights and democracy . britain and some other european governments have responded to a post-election crackdowns by temporarily withholding aid . cutting off aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation in 80 million people . donald payne , a leading member of the organization for american house foreign affairs committee , and ana gauntanges , a member of the european parliament from portugal and the eu ’s observation team in the 2005 elections , have sought to tie non-humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct of press freedom and other human rights .
old age must be viewed not just as an inevitable life-long stage , but as an opportunity for health-care companies and systems that help people to thrive . to keep people working longer hours , keeping them healthy is crucial . that is why the health-care industry needs to play a significant role in efforts to address the challenges of populations that are aging . to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts toward conditions prevalent among older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , gerlaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vital in finding ways more efficiently to stem the degradation of people ’s livelihoods and autonomy , by preserving their own physical force , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and defining them .
a second large transition-financing opportunity lies in blend finance or collaborative schemes that raise privately owned capital for public goods . such initiatives bring together a broad spectrum of public and private stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to fund projects with deep environmental and social impact . moreover , the blended approach helps scale up and de-risk projects , and will optimize their financing . the initiative blended private , public , and philanthropic funding facilities to maximize environmental and social benefits . the initiative blended private , public , and philanthropic funding facilities , in order to maximize environmental and social benefits .
emerging markets were initially tied to this distress only when foreign investors started pulling their money out . then came the panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets highlights the vulnerability of many developing countries ’ financial systems and corporate sectors that experienced loan booms and borrowed short-lived and foreign currencies . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , were among the most fragile . today , many emerging markets remain at risk of a severe financial crisis . but even better-performing ones , such as brazil , russia , india , and china , are now risking a hard landing .
but interventions by bercow and the eu have opened up an entire new game , dramatically increasing the odds that brexit might not happen . this would foil financial-market speculators who have bet on a withdrawal , and is good news for both the uk and the eu . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu looked improbable . almost three years ago , british voters largely failed to recognize what they had done when they opted by a narrow majority for leaving the eu . and , if a new referendum were held , british voters would most likely need to decide between an orderly brexit and a departure from the eu , for no side would dare to offer a hard brexit as the alternative .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path toward reform that produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . through the mechanism of dual-track pricing , farmers were given market incentives . mao zedong ’s death two years earlier , in march 1976 , and the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded , stamping out his vision of economic development and modernizing the two third plenary held in december 1978 . in the four decades since then , china transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous make-up of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state controls was relaxed .
the united states ’ enemies have been strengthened , and iran , despite being branded as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” – it has catapulted itself into regional hegemony . iran could never achieve this on its own ; certainly not in that short time . jerusalem has come to the fore in the wake of america ’s misguided foreign policy , the threat of yet another military confrontation has hangs as a dark cloud over the middle east . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has so far been transformed into an open-ended struggle for middle eastern dominance . the result has been the emergence of some startling , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and american-backed shia-dominated iraq confront israel , saudi arabia , and much of the other sunni arab states , all of which feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance .
to be free , but it is no easy task , especially at a time when dependency habits are ingrained . fascination with liberal freedom came , in poland and elsewhere for a strange moment . in the postcommunist social revolutions ( less frequently noted than political and economic upheavals ) families and communities were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church became too engaged in politics to assimilate . old social structures were destroyed , socialist customs , and habits were vanished overnight , former norms and unwritten rule . people were left to resist the gales of change alone .
likewise , the crisis must not become a pretext to develop new institutional formats that are compromising the need to resume and complete the eu 's delicate balance among different eu institutions , balance that – through the appropriate adjustments – has been proven to be a test of time . the crisis , of course , underscores the need to strengthen the eu 's institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . we need a definitive and complete ratification of the lisbon treaty to have the institutionally and internationally stronger europe we need . an extension of the eu as a vehicle for freedom and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity that are particularly throughout eastern europe is in the interests of any european citizen . nor should today 's ’s uncertainties become an excuse to call into question the need to resume and complete the eu 's enlargement process .
powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by mainstream supporters , have supposedly driven the government to fix extravagant prices and write off sugar-based farmers ’ poor debts , resulting in over-production . rather than quelling this system , as was anticipated , modi ’s government has augmented subsidies to encourage higher output ; raised sugar duties to deter foreign competition ; and boosted a sugar-based ethanol that needs to be blended in gasoline . that objective , in turn , explains another policy reversal as well . his motivation is not hard to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help wrest control of maharashtra , india , the world ’s major sugar-producing state , from the upa in its upcoming state assembly elections . a recently cited example of the outgoing government ’s supposed economic mismanagement has been its sugar-pricing policy .
berlin – germany ’s social democrats ( spd ) ’ existential crisis may no longer treat it like the typical party crisis . the party captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria earlier this month in regional elections , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and greens on national opinion polls in may . with another significant regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will lose still more support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but , with the spd declining , germany is shifting from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays the dominant role .
while russia alone will not freeze accounts , putin ’s meaning has been obvious : it would do better for all sides if that money were brought home and invested in the national economy . to achieve this end , russia needs to establish a secure and attractive investment climate . russians need convincing themselves about the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , none is proposing that nationalization be – as occurred repeatedly during the eight months that i was prime minister . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment for the time being long if ordinary russians keep their savings -- $ 50 billion , according to most projections , at home ? most important , if we reverse capital flight , the government needs to persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand .
without gorbachev and his singular courage , a stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible . their devotion against the injustice of the communist regime is to me one of the best chapters in german history . for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in eastern germany took heart , and ceased to be scared of their repressive regime . they recognized that eastern germany ’s realities are not fixed in stone after all ; to achieve change that many of the courageous dissidents and civil rights proponents imprisoned behind the wall had demanded for so long . opening hungary ’s borders that fall and sought sanctuary by east germans in german embassies in prague and warsaw has already shaken communist and stasi rules to their foundation .
as a result , some – though relatively speaking , not many – undertake long and often perilous journeys to the developed world . and yet , when they arrive at their doorstep in the rich world , the welcome they receive is becoming increasingly muddled , as manufactured panic over the supposedly massive influxes of a dangerous ” ” outsiders closes the space for a humane , pragmatic response . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with global reach , one that reflects a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , organizations , development institutions , civil-society faith groups , academia , sports education , and arts . responsibility-sharing , the modern international system ’s refugee foundation , is being replaced by a responsibility-shifting process , typically onto the least-developed countries . it is time to re-boot the global effort to protect refugees .
munich : europe ’s crisis has , so far , passed through six phases . recalling them is worth displaying how policymakers stumbled along , attempting to square the fires without keeping themselves on where their chosen path led them . markets currently remain calm ; but this is just the start of a seventh stage , during which europe would become mired in debt . the seventh phase of the greek crisis is one of heightened moral hazard , stemming from the debt run-up . the sequence so far has been as follows :
second , again , as the skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay penalties for going wrong . between 1985 and 2005 , a boomsters made ten-year forecasts less relevant to predicting large positive shifts in both financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as tranquility in the middle east , and a dynamic growth rate in sub-saharan africa ) . in the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggersters the chances of negative shifts in any of the same boomerangs where boomerangs accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i still wait for the impending disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . they allotted the 70 % probabilities to rosy scenarios that materialized just 15 % of the time . they assigned the 70 % probabilities to rosy scenarios that materialized in just 12 % .
it makes little economic difference to germany , france or italy , whether britain is an eu member , or simply in the wto . the economic challenges of brexit in the eu would be overwhelming . the out campaigning for the chief economic argument , that britain has a secret trade deficit , because the eu would have more to lose now than britain from a breakdown in trade relations , is flatly wrong . britain would need to negotiate access to europe for its service industries , with a secret race to the bottom , because eu manufacturers would also automatically enjoy a virtually limitless claim to sell whatever it wants in britain under the global trade organization ’s rules . margaret thatcher was the first to realize that britain does specialization in services – not just with finance , but with legislation , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and the like – makes eu membership critical .
responding to them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and the judiciary , and elucidates the proportionate relationship between politics and religion . to this , an understanding of the historical context of the current crisis is of crucial importance . as turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system of secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the army ’s power and the bureaucracy to cede control to an elected government . in reality , the turkish military , with its support of the judiciary , explicitly intervened in the civilian government ’s functioning in 1960 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of defending secularism . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have encouraged their followers to assume positions within the bureaucracy and the army .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union cracked . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake has been the role that it played in europe of its most populous , economically powerful country . what changed that evening was germany that europeans have known since the end of world war ii . since then , europeans have been living in another sort of eu . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) , and about the dire consequences that follow for greece and the monetary union .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab-led history can – unlike those conducted by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . egypt ’s military interventions in yemen in the 1960s are a case in point . until the end of 1965 , egyptian president omar abdel nasser sent 70,000 troops in yemen to support a republican coup against the royalist force . typically , such interventions were aimed at empowering a proxy political force over his military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian catastrophe , or institutionalizing a nonviolent , resolution mechanism following the war . despite the use of the banned use of chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 , a first in intra-arab confrontation , egypt has failed to achieve its objectives .
today , there are 125 countries , forming a group that has called an “ inclusive framework . ” beps , after all , was undoubtedly an important step toward solving some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies that multinational companies use . for example , it has initiated a sharing among country-by-country tax authorities on these companies ’ profits and tax payments . but , however well , this norm will apply only to very large multinational corporations , and reports will not publicly be available , deprive civil society of an essential transparency tool . oecd countries led the reform process and opened up to developing countries until this initial package was unveiled .
pass-through corporations now account for over 80 % of net business income ( by far the highest share among advanced countries ) . likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest for corporations , as many other developed countries did , would expand the fiscal base and discourage excessive reliance on debt financing , they raise the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation wo n’t expand the tax base sufficiently to finance a rate cut to 28 % . reducing tax preferences for non-corporate business entities ( like partnerships ) that transmit their incomes through to their owners ’ individual returns would also expand the tax base , as a result of a corporate-income tax . a few of these entities are extremely large and profitable , and enjoy the same legal advantages as corporations .
at the same time , however , israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to be governed by existing arrangements that cover most aspects of its security and civil administration . this means that the israeli army will continue to enter gaza at will and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , as well as in territorial waters . these conditions dominate any chance to forging a security plan that receives support from all factions , including hamas . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the palestinian-egyptian strip . israel ’s disengagement roadmap presents an evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to the country ’s 37 years of occupation .
in some cases , such as portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of agricultural employment in the us has declined by more than 20 % . in others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , income exceeded 10 % . almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in america peaked at about 53 % of total employment . nowadays , it is less than 3 % , that number over the same period . indeed , since the late 1980 ’s , most oecd countries have experienced large declines in farm employment .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hoping that a vote will usher in an era of stability and calm by the government ’s lending popular legitimacy . but , at times , democracy is best served by refusing to participate . the upcoming elections , to be held under the illegal provisional constitutional order ( pco ) conducted following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are such a case , which is why my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the ballot . to be sure , contesting elections would provide my party with a huge opportunity to take issues to the people . in fact , my own party ’s support has grown stronger , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular in the frontier province , and that it has taken ground in every other province .
yet , sadly , this shift will not solve the problems that devour at the social fabric of any society . just as bernanke and others want otherwise , and as much as bickering politicians seek to dump policy responsibility for others ’ sake , central banks have no proper tools for dealing with an unemployment crisis that results from inadequate investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at increasing cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together . and it is a good deal of money that the official sector pays more attention to joblessness – a very good thing .
most of china ’s internationally shared water resources lie in the tibetan plateau that it annexed in the early 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is a new center of china ’s dam construction projects . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for another surge of dam projects on the plateau . moreover , china has recently cut off the flow of tributary parts of the brahmaputra river , bangladesh ’s lifeline and northern india , to build a dam as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . in fact , china ’s urban builders are targeting the bulk of the international rivers that flow out of chinese territory .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was decisive in preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it has been . over the last 70 years , multilateralism had served the world well . back then , it was the global financial system that was tottering . today , it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations in the aftermath of world war ii .
this was surely the case for my parents , who had sacrificed much to raise their nine children . but this was not a farfetched transformation in a town where people assumed new identity – such as nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist – downplaying their regional and tribal origins . at the time , schools were multiplying as attendance rates surged . they were not pleased when , in the 1970s , their elder sons became communists , strongly opposing the brutal regime of hafez al-assad , then president bashar al-assad ’s father . other public services were improving just as well , with parents convinced that their children would lead a more prosperous live poor living than they and earlier generations had .
this track results in high turnover , owing to over-work and an increased need for foreign-born health-care workers to fill sorely needed posts . the gcc policymakers were right to focus on increasing access and quality of health care . but achieving a fair distribution of health-care services across native and migrant populations is often the thorny policy question . and now , policymakers must also devote more attention to health-care workforces alone , ensure that they are properly educated and trained to the challenges that await the region . training programs in the gcc ’s national health systems today do not focus nearly enough on innovation or systems thinking that can improve efficiency and efficiency .
had the army collapses , it is algeria ’s [ and ] france that collapses . had the state bowed ahead of the challenge it faced , “ france would be no more than a poor , broken toy floating on an ocean of uncertainty , ” ” he publicly warned . the decisive moment came when , in military uniform , de gaulle took the television to demonstrate his mastery of a new “ medium . ” “ well , my dear and old country here , we are again facing a heavy test , ” ” ” ” he declared . insisting that self-determination is the only way forward , he called on the army to reject even a passive association with an insurrection and directed it to re-establish public order .
so every means they should be found to reach out to iranian society at all levels . just when the world reached the consensus that ahmadinejad was merely a tool of former supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad brought a vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later shades the nomination ) . what we do know with certainty is the division of the regime itself . those divisions will enable the new forces within iranian society to emerge . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study at asian universities , in an effort to discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about a prospective − which may well cause them to reflect on why young iranians do not share this optimism .
over the last few years , nato ’s funding policy has been updated to allow for common funding as an incentive to provide for certain theater-level capabilities , such as medical equipment , airports handling soldiers and supplies , or intelligence . how can one evaluate an contribution of light infantry provision against providing critical enablers like airplane helicopters or air-to-air refueling tankers ? traditionally , nato has invoked a “ services-cost ” policy where it falls ” : every member has picked up every cost to the operational contribution it has made to an alliance operation . common funding , with all members paying a share based on their gdp , is one tool that can be used to achieve more equitable burden-sharing . over what time do you make your calculations ?
owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply grew as “ zombie ” companies proliferated . meanwhile , aggregate demand was restrained by debt headwinds , yet another consequence of easy monetary conditions . given such conditions , continued insistence on monetary easing seems especially nefarious . moreover , one might argue that the easy money alone has contributed to unexpectedly strong deflationary forces viewed over the last few years . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underpinning their policies .
though the saudis have not been covered by president bush ’s “ axis of evil , ” ” ” ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as the “ kernel of evil . yet cooperation with the us may not gain the al-sauds , given that saudi relationships with america are strained to the breaking point . al-qaeda ’s terrorist network viewed the result outright , fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines that constitute an integral part of the saudi regime . ever since the terrorist attacks in new york and washington last year , regime change – once central to american strategic interests in the region – has given the impression of a drive to feel dispensable in an american after a year that drops strong showing that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even to saudi oil . thus , among the wrong set of possibilities , the least bad appears to be cooperation with america .
others disagree , argue , that mind can protect itself by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it difficult for victims to recall their most horrific experiences , until it is safe to do so many years later . nevertheless , such clinical trauma theorists disagree that “ repressed ” or dissociated ” ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign . how victims remember trauma comes to be the most controversial issue facing human psychology and psychiatry today . many clinical trauma theorists believe that fighting , rape , and other gruesome experiences are allegedly engraved at the mind never to forget . while acknowledging that trauma is nowadays too memorable , those particular clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of victims unable to recall its trauma , precisely because it has been so overwhelmingly terrifying .
in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game that my friends played up , we would have allowed a new kid in calcutta , but only after whispers to their ears ’ ears , elé belé belé . as a child , mastering elé the brutal art of elé belé was important . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by a doting home , we could convey to one another with more than sight that kid is elé belé . an elé belé is a kind of player who thinks it is engaged but , by truth , is merely walking through motions . what everybody knew is that the goal scored a will not be a realistic target .
the financial times exchange all-busting all-world index rose by almost 22 % in 2017 , its best performance since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 . as the underlying growth pessimism of the past few years fades , some of the warnings that these developments have advanced economies appear to have become outdated in recent years . northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued that america ’s economy is bound to slow because today ’s technological innovations will not boost growth to the level that they have had in the past . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers received much attention for his argument that the world risks sliding toward renewed “ secular stagnation , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” because the interest rate needed to bring desired investment along with desired savings has fallen below zero . yet , while a frictionless bound no longer appears to seem a binding constraint , there are potential causes to worry , one concerning the levels of debt .
india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and the commitment not to reallocating the natural flows of any particular river , or efforts to reduce cross-border water flows . but even the joint expert-level mechanism – set up in 2007 merely for interaction and cooperation ” on hydrological data – has shown little merit . in fact , most international rivers are flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already threatening global warming . the only rivers on which no hydro-engineering work have undertaken so far are the indus , whose basin tends to fall mostly in india and pakistan , and the salween that flows into burma and thailand . local authorities in yunnan province , however , are considering damming the salween in the quake-prone upstream region .
finally , currency chaos is the safest bet on everyone , with sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . perhaps , but a majority of students in monetary policy view quantitative easing as an textbook policy for pulling the economy out of its zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” ” thereby preventing the onset of ongoing deflation , which would exacerbate debt loads . as for china ’s renminbi , it continues to support a highly political exchange-rate regime . in the end , china ’s rapid growth will need to translate into a significant drag on its currency , its domestic price-earnings level , or both . yet , with most equilibration likely to take hold in 2011 , most equilibration probably will take place through inflation .
with the us distracted by other strategic challenges , not to mention its domestic presidential campaign , asia ’s other powers , particularly an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are its best candidates for the job . without such cooperation , the challenge for china ’s ambitions would be constrained solely by domestic factors , such as faltering economies ; rising social discontent , deteriorating environmental crises , or vicious politics . at the same time , which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? both india and japan are longstanding players in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own international relations the values that american espouses , like the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect for their territorial and maritime status quo , and preserve freedom of navigation .
at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their commitments under the convention to provide financial support and technology-transfer efforts to enable developing countries to address climate change effectively . furthermore , adequate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the call for dealing with climate change . yet , because addressing climate change poses a more far-reaching – and serious – challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to address it . when it comes to sustainable development , developing countries will pursue sustainable development – and with it measurable , reportable , and verifiable aid in the scale of finance , technology , and capacity-building – take nationally appropriate mitigation actions .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
that , no doubt , is what the bank of japan now does . a <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchasing of zero-interest-rate government bonds , which will not be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over each time it is mature . that is , arguably , what the bank of japan ( boj ) is now doing . this comes after years of statements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former american federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money provides the method for overcoming deflation ( with which japan has been struggling for decades ) . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has said that it directly underwriting budget deficits is not an option .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger at gop elites . starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , as well as to the anger at gop elites . media outlets given the equivalent of $ 2 trillion worth of free cover , helping it to grab and hold fast in the polls , and most primaries . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to have been displaced and economically brutish blue-collar workers . its supporters like the tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle classes , and white .
once a group of people is viewed with suspicion , the attention shifts away from them as a matter of moral individuals . they become soulless bodies , with the moral circle used to exclude them . our reaction to soulless bodies is well documented in a story told by descartes after his death . according to the story , descartes was so caught with grief that he created an automaton , a mechanical doll , built to appear identical to his dead daughter . descartes was known to have an illegitimate daughter , a francine , who died when he was just five years old .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction has summarized turkish sentiment : “ those burning aim at destroying our country ’s peace and stability . if these bombings are intended as a way of sending the message , i will sweep it away , and crush it under my legs . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are not likely to generate nervous reactions in restricting democratic rights . in doing so , we will not change our course , but at least it is n’t going to . ” had al-qaeda been behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of law echoes the demands of many of the conservative-pragmatists , who lean toward mousavi , who are unwilling to challenge khamenei directly . mousavi has to stand down his two key demands : a nullification of the election and the establishment of an impartial committee to govern by the government ’s breaches of election law . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not win the presidency , but rather continue to represent the hopes of muslim-majority iranians who differ dramatically with their rule . mousavi has to continue on his legal campaign carefully , without compromising the trust that he derived from iranians ’ majority . should mousavi persuade khamenei to rethink his position , supreme leader who holds power will be shaken .
but , even when yanukovych was thinking primarily of his own personal concerns , his quest for personal self-enrichment was irrational . there is , too , something even more fundamental to yanukovych ’s reputation in the first place . imagine that he stopped questioning himself what would make him happier . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anybody else to help the people , and that was supposed to be yanukovych ’s top priority . imagine that he thought that he stood down to ask himself what would make him a happier congress . imagine that , with that question in mind , he compared the alternative of a land of water ( with a private zoo and a pirate-ship ) with that of living comfortably high salaries to which he was right while recognizing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s lives in ukraine ’s citizens .
indeed , the visit to incheon comes within the context of mixed messages . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage the outside world in a constructive and durable way , or whether dprk officials and diplomats simply put a good face to deflect international attention from their country ’s reputation as nuclear-armed weapons-monger and human-rights violator . on the day of incheon ’s visit , north korea ’s status-of-state news agency continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this is a design for the u.s. to [ its ] prod more , zealously south korean puppet forces in order to exacerbate the confrontation with the dprk in a bid to strain the situation to the extreme pitch and ignite [ a second korean war ] . ” for two days before a north korean delegation was reached , a committee to peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , both officially part of the korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korean puppet forces for their serious violation of north-south statements , ” and pushed north-south ties into the worst disaster . yet north korea was far less forthcoming from its intentions .
yes , the people do specialize and they should specialize , too . everybody benefits from each of us becoming good at different things , and they exchanging our knowhow with others . it is not efficient to a dentist and a lawyer . but specialization on a person actually leads to higher-level diversification . when the idea is both a counter-and actually false notion , it is often because it is true on a single level , but rather a level where it is applied .
gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , and mosquitoes , particularly females , can surf air currents at relatively high levels of altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where winds can blow them hundreds of miles . this choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders have already decided to pursue release.reinforcing this conclusion , following the un convention , target malaria ’s attempted to draw a distinction between the requirement of free , prior , and informed consent under medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) , and in a public-health context . likewise , civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have largely been failing to consult on target malaria ’s work.the more limited time interviews i conducted there have become , a clearer it became that local people did not engage in a genuinely participatory debate on the destination malaria project , much less extended their informed consent . on the contrary , several of the people i interviewed have called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitoes to be halted until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had matured fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent reflects its own rhetoric , eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly uses terms like “ engagement ” and “ community acceptance . ” this means that consent would have to be secured substantially beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; center ; } for a limited time meeting with limited time just ; getting
as a result , the world ’s labor markets are now interconnected . a young population in countries as diverse as egypt and the us exert a influence on competition by young chinese and indians for good jobs . they object little , but many end up in prison . many more have simply become discouraged , dropping out of the labor force altogether : not in school , rather than looking for a job . china ’s low-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the standard by which competitiveness is globally competitive .
indeed , article 7 of the lisbon treaty establishes for the suspension of rogue eu member states ' voting rights . but , because this " nuclear option " requires unanimity of voting by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never be used . indeed , article 7 is such an inefficient deterrent serving the interests of rule-breakers , by all but guaranteeing that they will not be punished . orbán has been scamming the eu over years and encouraging other populists to follow through on their own authoritarian ends , and with eu funds to boot . but weakening the rule of law is not merely a home in hungary or poland .
bush , too , was quick to follow a unilateralist agenda , saying that there is incontrovertible evidence of a link between al qaeda and the fact that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lies . detection technology made it clear that there was no nuclear weapons of iraq , as chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . bush may well have read these messages , but they were beyond his comprehension . indeed , detection technology has made it clear that iraq did not possess nuclear arms , as chief un inspector hans blix did .
returnees are as well present in many other asian countries , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . sadly , as sri lanka ’s bombast and other attacks in asia show , defeating isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , with battle-hardened fighters with operational training to stage savage attacks now leading home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how obscure local group has been able to conduct sophisticated , near-term strikes on the three churches and three hotels using military-grade explosives . all of these groups are driven by a nihilistic rage , born of hostility toward non-sunnis and rejection of modernity . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut off their teeth in a us-backed war against soviet occupation in afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans might haunt asia ’s security situation , the middle east , and afghanistan for years to come .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in a land of blood and honey , ” is about the ethnic tensions that produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . it has been already won by two awards , and by an emerging box-office success , attesting to perpetually unconcerned , and perhaps mystery , that the balkan states hold up for international audiences that were just as horrified as those events were puzzled in 1990 . as jolie ’s film so ably shows , neither the international community nor local leaders made concerted efforts to prevent the carnage . one exception – possibly the sole exception – was kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president , who died in his sleep on new year of 94 . for those of us who lived and worked in the region during that turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav warfare remains fresh blows .
beyond shifting investment away from the united kingdom , firms will also begin relocating jobs . there is mounting evidence of falling foreign-investment companies , and this is contributing to the economy ’s disappointing levels of investment overall . moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . there are also signs that uk-based firms have started to spark their brexit contingency plans , following a prolonged period of waiting , blueprints , and more waiting . and this process will likely accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to secure her proposed exit deal through parliament .
he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby empowering its citizens . and he views globalization as a good thing , but understands that it must be managed through a durable , efficient international agreement and institution . at the same time , opinion polls currently detect wildly wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in support for juppé among left-wing voters outside of the socialist party . he advocates local decision-making when feasible and efficient ; but he also supports nationally and european-level decision-making where that is appropriate ; the key is that the processes that should be flexible and allow citizen participation to participate . if macron qualifies for a second-round run-off , however , he faces a greater threat to le pen than an inward-looking , leftist candidate would .
indeed , the european project represents a realist reaction to globalization and its challenges . it was initiated to establish the “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and european social model . having achieved those goals , europeans now want to make a positive contribution to the world stage . this is not a nostalgia for past glory ; it is one that we have . an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was visible in the collective mourning and a mixture of sympathy toward spain ; we need to build on that immense potential to establish a logic of global solidarity .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s ’s ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody see that coming ? ” for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii , ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody see it coming ? ” krugman ’s merry response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . having “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system , they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes . theirs was a failure of theory not in theory , but out of “ data-collection . ”
the same can not be said for kaczyński.another major difference is that east europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond eu concerns about physical safety to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this divergence is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on more materialist liberal institutions like freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should not be too startling . after all , liberalism in eastern europe is imported from western europe . notwithstanding trump and the brexit phenomena , america and the united kingdom have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is also better targeted at regions – such as charity , religion , and leisure – rather than a political issues.moreover , rather than a political issues.moreover , in the vastly different pan-european political landscape that the left is either extremely feeble or entirely absent from the political mainstream .
if germany can not shift toward a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will most likely spin out of line . yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany , its falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains strong . as for the eurozone , we appear to have been overly optimistic , even as we foresaw the decline in its potential growth rate to 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters place the region ’s growth potential on about 1 % . but that is a big if , and if it is true .
given the supposed upswing in turkey ’s economy and its falling birthrate , experts predict a figure of some 2.7 million immigrants by the end of may . the magnitude of such transfers would nonetheless depend , first and foremost , on the eu ’s financial policies at a time of admission , the result of accession talks and economic developments in turkey . at any rate , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent the eruption in the financial costs that turkey ’s accession engendering . for its part , immigration should not be a cause for undue concern ; either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workers ’ would likely be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a prolonged transition period , perhaps not before 2025 .
more than most people realize that gospels are treating recalcitrant jews as their own messiah -- as perpetrators of a criminal who lives on every generation . anti-semites often cite a passage through matthew , in which a jewish crowd cheers for the execution of christ , ( “ his disciples come at night , stealing him away , and our children . ” matthew then attributes passage to jews a recurrent lie explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples came at night and steal him away while we slept . ” the later evangelist john concludes that , because jews deny the christian messiah they must be “ devil sons . ” just as whites attribute extraordinary sex powers to the black party , the instinct of the christian west is to treat jews as the master of extraordinary forces -- including the power to kill deities and control world finance .
but , with too much macho , too little politics , and provincialism , reform never did . thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates made it a plausible gamble to bet on bhat , an opening salvo in a crisis . encouraged by the illusion of a strong reserve position , the thai central bank took on the speculators -- and lost . by the time the crisis hit , thailand looked like all the others turning in its desperation to the imf . so the notion that “ this country is different , ” that the rules of global finance did not apply proved utter nonsense .
that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well equipped : they can raise the public conscience but are unable to commit governments formally . doing so can only be other governments themselves to do as they do . it was not least thanks to the drive in protest movements that france has now made concessions on both counts . accordingly , the attempt to nail down the kind of concessions that the protests had extracted , the hour of governments arrived . but how can such concessions , given under duress , be secured ?
compounding the challenge , the cohorts of informed elites in russia are increasing . as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , putin complained that “ too many ” russians are now studying these subjects . but , with the regime forced to dedicate more resources to silencing informed , majorities will suffer economically . most of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight .
london – government officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long been insisting that “ china will n’t weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet , implicit in their promise to not to manipulate a currency to a strategic end is their ability to do so , if made so desired . many wonder whether china will respond to trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should call its bluff . china ’s monetary-policy monetary policy back to the fore now is us president donald trump ’s administration ’s imposition of tariffs on a wide array of chinese goods .
in the u.s. , for example , the foreign-born share of the us population has risen from less than 5 % in the 1960 's to about 14 % today . but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . aside from contributing to the size and productivity of the workforce , migrants would seem to often complement native-born workers ’ skills , helping them to earn more . changing culturally between developed countries also matters , perhaps even more . my professionalism focus on economics , which is why i have emphasized the role of growth .
that shift , in turned out , clears the way for a generational change of leadership – and , more fundamentally , a switch to post-oslo politics . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , a leader of the birzeit university student movement in the 1980 ’s , and one of the primary organizers of the initial intifada , resulting in his deportation to israel at the end of the 1980 ’s . he was arrested and sentenced to a long prison term on charges that he led a second intifada that began two years earlier and ordered some of his military attacks . the plo ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas – who led the liberation organization out of exile , and returned home with the oslo accords , ruled the palestinian political landscape up to now . after departing the scene , palestinian leaders , born under occupation and spending time at israeli prisons , will most likely fill the vacuum .
it is probably true that the regime tries to counter this eruption of nationalism , while preserving its powerful statist rhetoric . but , in order to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be compelled to assume its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . this will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the state bureaucracy and the security apparatus . these are key ingredients within a nationalist scammers that seem to appeal to russians nowadays . judging by putin ’s most recent address to parliament , his regime has a full awareness of the danger posed by right-wing nationalists .
indeed , tsai is similarly committed in taiwan . tsai has called for renewables ’ share of disposable income to rise to as high as 20 % over the next eight years , with the capacity she coming mainly from solar and offshore wind . this new load would easily replace electricity generated by a country with six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is equally committed . today , she uses coal and natural gas to provide more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . over the next year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy triggered by japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai has vowed to make coal-nuclear-free by 2025 .
as production of these fuels grows , the us will need policies , programs , and capacities to ensure that they are used sustainably without disrupting food markets , or undermine food security , which will always be the first priority . rudoldiesel ’s first engine , conceived in the late 1800s , ran on fuel-sourced peanut oil . rudolf ’s pioneers of biofuels would probably be surprised by how little to contribute to today ’s total global fuel supply . henry ford once great florida in hopes of purchasing land tracts to plant sugar cane , has convinced the united states that it will not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels or dependence on oil produce gasoline . in recent decades alone , biofuels have regained their indigenous appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate incomes , and mitigate the dependency of which ford had been warned .
liberals and radicals organized travel show , color posters , and political entertainment . many britons believed in a “ free-trade empire ” in their own countries . others have fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricatured protectionist germany as a barbarian society surviving on mount sausages and the dog-meat ; lloyd georgians , a future prime minister , told audiences that he was rather afraid of german sausage than they were of germany ’s own naval . one reason that free trade beat protectionism in britain a century ago is that its supporters appealed to people in feeling and identity , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food . in towns , display in shop windows illustrated the cost of tariff expenses to ordinary consumers .
an inordinately lax regulatory environment proved lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european government and bank bonds . the attempt to establish the european equivalent of the dollar , together with imposing a fiscal union at the top of it , is bound to fail , despite the lack of a common european state . it turns member countries and lenders into one another to stoking even more animosity . when a bubble burst , it left in its wake woefully expensive economies that lost competiveness . europeans should now take advantage of the calm between through the storms ’ fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union out of ground .
indeed , the latter now stand at more than 15 % of gdp . rival asian economies will have to be stabilized before they can push their exports more aggressively . furthermore , with the advent of floating exchange rates , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the approaching end of a floating exchange rate . as a result of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may be lessened . the hits chinese exports are likely to materialize , owing to a region of currency depreciations , nevertheless unlikely to be felt right , right away .
for europe , the situation is worrying both about two counts . symbolically , this implies backing for the initial and significant effort undertaken by others . at the same time , the following from above thus has operational and symbolic significance . operationally , there is both limited security and involved in ground troops . moreover , there are genuine disagreements within the american bureaucracy over consideration of the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to us interests .
the private sector has large foreign assets , while the government has about equal shares of foreign liabilities . on the other side , with a country ’s foreign assets held not by households , but by eu institutions , such as pension funds can identify and tax them . this is , after all , the case most often in europe . even so , argentina went bankrupt because wealthy argentines spirited their assets outside the country and therefore outside their reach of the us government , while poor argentines refused to pay the taxes they needed to satisfy foreign creditors ’ claims . this analysis suggests that the “ over-[ current-account ” imbalances ” that are supposed to introduce under continuous eurozone governance reform goes in the right direction .
the stars of barcelona , true madrid , chile , and milan are household names . disappointed by their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems largely from their shared love of football . but exposure to foreign-backed tv stations also means that many disillusioned algerians are searching for a flight to italy , france , or germany , as their only hope for employment and decent lives . will the coming months bring about genuine change in algeria ? will social and economic reforms be undertaken to ensure the equitable division of a country ’s oil and gas wealth ?
it remains unclear what took greenspan to support tax cuts . the most plausible explanation is a mix of the two , for he and bush pursued the same “ starve the beast ” of political strategy , which calls for tax cuts to kick in to reduce revenues , thereby pushing the public sector further away . lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a housing bubble . in short , like greenspan departs , he let behind an american economy burdened by high household and government debts and fragile balance sheets – a legacy already contributing to global financial instability . was it a massive economic misjudgment or currying favor with the bush administration ?
competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . and food insecurity , stemming from land mismanagement , is an important factor driving migrants toward europe . ethiopia is hardly the only recent account of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . land-related concerns will continue to threaten global stability , especially as climate-related effects exacerbate existing problems . an historic drought may have created conditions for syria ’s civil war .
more to the point , they would then pay off far more than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would return more than they put in . because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita to a carbon dividend . in the short run , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly wealthy high-polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income low-wealth polluters , all while reducing co2 emissions . on its own , it would represent a shrewd step in the right direction , one that does not invite a “ yellow vest ” reaction anymore . but do n’t let anybody tell you that it is a silver bullet , after all .
a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs support for political leadership just as it is accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel does not make speeches attacking a strong europe , and the european central bank has its price-stability mandate . this is not to say that merkel is a free-market capitalist economy ; there is little evidence for that . on the contrary , she promotes an independent ecb , and has let germany ’s trade unions and companies know that they will have to live with a strong currency and an anti-inflationary monetary policy . rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing europe and the ecb send the wrong signals .
owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s inward-looking perspective is now synonymous with that of europe . and the eu ’s outlook is not for a hegemon ; rather , concern with the rule of law , a integration , and a peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ interests . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a bad proposition ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a potent , successful eu , especially during trump ’s age . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to its security . just as no french security can be made without germany can be restored without poland .
but the critics have found it difficult to prove the presence of memory or other cognitive ills that endure beyond three months . in fact , very few of those receiving ect also do not receive benzodiazepines , which trigger significant autobiographical memory when given alone , as well as a antipsychotic drug that causes difficulties in biases of biases or telephone numbers , and other comparable problems . as a result , the same is true of antidepressant drugs . nor can enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and the inability to remember lists readily account for ect alone , on the grounds that ect is seldom given on their own . there is no controversy that ect can make a loss for short-term memory .
but no government did find cacs adequate to resolve domestic restructurings . if they were , there would be no domestic bankruptcy laws that spells out issues like precedence and equitable treatment . so , why should we believe that they would suffice in a much more complex sovereign-debt restructurings world ? above all , cacs suffer from the “ aggregation ” problem . if a cac requires , say , 75 % of individual bond class holders , the vultures could buy , 26 % of just one bond class , and block full restructuring .
the eu should escalate the case for opening dialogue and hard bargaining , precisely what has long been missing in western politics on ukraine ’s crisis and toward its entirety on the post-soviet eurasian region . a move beyond currency-adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . holding talks in a contemporary atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require a massive political capital investment in a lasting period . we arrived at this point , precisely because both russia and the west each spent more than a decade seeking unilateral advantage and eschewing negotiated compromises . a quick deal will be impossible , either .
but it also represents a global gold standard across many fields , including technology , defense and research and development . america ’s federal government expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and that of its middle class ( formed in no small part through the new deal ’s support for unionization and home ownership ) . america ’s federal government expanded anew during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony , and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal ’s support for unionization and home ownership ) . the government anticipated a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security and social security . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , american historical experience instilled in citizens and leaders a fidelity to liberty , including through free markets and local autonomy .
the precise number of european fighters receiving training from isis and a return home remains unknown to the us . france has suffered more than 230 deaths , and around 700 injuries , while turkey has endured over 220 deaths and around 900 injured . isis has reportedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( iranian ) , surveillance , counter-safety , and forgery . isis has so far hit france and turkey hardest . abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the paris attacks in november 2015 , has claimed that he is one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe .
women account for just one-third of all teachers in afghan primary and secondary school , owing in part to extraordinarily low levels of female literacy . in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which is key to boosting girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools for the sake of learning outcomes . but the shortage of qualified female teachers makes scaling up this type of initiative difficult to avoid . to account for the learning crisis in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to shape the strategic partnerships with non-state providers . fortunately , the afghan government has begun opening its doors to innovative ngo models , like brac ’s ’s community-based education program .
in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects longstanding use of state expenditures to fund the regime ’s own allies and clients , rather than to benefit the entire population . these economic shocks have exposed the massive costs to every country ’s sectarian-based political system . taken together , those regimes have dominated each country ’s private sector through cronyism , not only to extract and distribute client rents , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that could finance opposition movements . as a result , capital and skill levels have been misallocated , the entrepreneurial climate has worsened , and competition , innovation , and growth has suffered . and protesters , fueled by economic grievances , have been galvanized by improvements in broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-power war in syria .
but the decreased flexibility in responding to economic shocks will almost certainly test it . at present , it boldly underscores the disparate , even discordant , fiscal reactions now being embraced by european union governments . this raises the old question about whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union or , at least , a stronger and more restrictive fiscal set ( the maastricht deficit ’s liabilities are too all too easy to break ) . to do that , the us will have to add to the eu ’s coordinated financial regulation and bailouts , as deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to pan-european national guarantees and insurance . will the euro next decade be as successful as the first ?
today , language barriers stop many immigrant parents from assisting their children with their homework because texts are only in english . today , pluto remain on the planet list in science textbooks and , who realize how long it will take for it to get rid of it . but imagine a world where textbooks come up continually updating and corrected by a legion of contributors . it was a living world that was , after all , a decade ago ; but it was only a dream . but imagine a world where textbooks today are attuning and corrected by a legion of contributors .
one powerful school of thought that emerged almost as the killing began in 1989 is that the more radical student leadership was very reckless . indeed , so proponents of that school often add up to it , as china was not yet prepared for a democracy . by provoking the regime , students derailed any chance of slowing political reform that their more moderate elders had painstakingly set in train . this should have been obvious to them that a violent crackdown was inevitable . if only they could have taken to the occasion in china .
it is too late for non-military instruments of coercion to have a lot of effect , though the security council ’s threat of atrocity crimes – including possible chemical weapons – must remain on the table . yet international donors are dragging their feet , both in meeting existing pledges and in fabricating new ones . delivery issues have abound in war zones , but not everywhere . and every assistance in the world will not stop the killing ; it will do so . but what of the military-response options still favored by a number of policymakers and pundits ?
for example , in the wake of trump ’s call to reduce us military involvement in the middle east , he is simply echoing obama . yet , by reneging on a nuclear deal with iran , trump has forged war in the region more likely . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , trump is practically driving them into china on arms . and , by passing himself on to moderate north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s international isolation , while getting virtually nothing in return , he has strengthened china ’s standing in east asia . trump ’s trade war is as self-defeating as ever .
every country could devise a council that presents public bodies ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( consumer and logistics firms ) that must work together to identify ways to lower logistics costs . peer communication between user and government services is essential to achieving any real improvement . regions can then be turned to the engines of growth . merchandise communication is essential to achieving any real improvement . every country could create a council that represents public bodies ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( consumers and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs .
the fdp ’s ideas have broad support in germany and among german economists ( and shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they fit with positions taken by germany ’s finance ministry under previous administrations . but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient , resilient financial markets might be dangerous if applied in highly imperfect , real-world markets . the notion of a temporary exit from the euro is especially ill-advised . as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating under an environment of uncertainty can become fragile and collapsing , imposing high costs on society .
right now , i cast my votes for the latter , especially because a huge legacy of debt is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the grand stimulus required . without producing a sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , we will experience a vicious negative spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , which push stock prices and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence and weaken the banks . at the same time , consumption and investment will take a back seat to slow growth . will it return to robust growth , or will an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ’s ? many wall street financiers , receiving their gobs of monetary reserves , return to their fiscal religions of low deficits .
prague – global free trade provides the world ’s greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty during the last quarter-century , and has made more than one billion people out of poverty . yet , in rich countries nowadays , sentiment has turned against free trade . lowering trade barriers further could double average incomes in some of the world ’s poorest parts over the next 15 years . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be addressed better ; but the costs are vastly outpacing the benefits .
when muslims form a minority , they have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations hold substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception for islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , whereby the idea of an active “ islamic world ” comprises only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . muslims in sub-saharan africa , like most muslims worldwide , nonetheless exhibit a “ us ” versus them ” mentality . whether they like it or not , most of sub-saharan african muslims are represented mostly by states , which tend to be mostly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions . indeed , whatever else ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ u.s. ” versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria .
and it is an obsession , rooted very much in the present . “ we forget that growth for the centuries has been essentially zero , ” he writes . “ one percentage point of real growth implies doubling your economy ’s size every 30 or 35 years . ” piketty sees this as grounds for being somewhat optimistic . indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” only serves as an excuse not to do nothing about health , about education , or redistribution .
that language represents a sharp departure from that of previous official eu communiqués . as the european commission warned earlier that year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is “ an economic competitor ” in its pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternate governance models . for good reason , a number of europeans are susceptible to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous official eu communiqués . europeans , too , are rightly concerned about the economic issue .
while it is true that the us democrats have often criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . a final issue to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as next chair of the american federal reserve . trump , who repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would most likely pick the more dovish candidate . fed leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg , might reappoint powell , who did the good , or choose a more normal democratic economist , such as former fed vice chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers . a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that foster massive amounts of fed-funded debt .
other recent “ terror ” ” – the related reporting has been as flimsy as well . the boston globe ran , for example , an article about a man identified only by his first name , canny – whom the brothers carjacked three days after the attack . canny argued that the brothers ’ only word ’ ’ ’ ’ conversation that they understood was manhattan , ” ” and that the terrorists asked him whether his car could leave the state , say , to get to new york . the globe ’s one-source report proved nothing , and was unverifiable by other reporters or businesspeople , but it suggested a lot , resulting in a spate of equally unverifiable reports that new york city was targeted . in charles savage ’s recent account of guantánamo “ uprising , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal , which gitmo officials displayed in some video still .
it finds that because of the downturn , an estimated 38 million more people will remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than probably would have otherwise been , with farm households in middle-income countries especially at risk . simultaneously , those gains have not been evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far fewer progress than other areas . rural areas of progress in this area have , of course , so far reveals their future potential . a second study , financed by ifad and i recently released a institute for international food policy research , examines the worldwide economic contraction beginning in rural populations in 2012 . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to ending poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” and strengthens the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , where poverty-reduction measures are necessary to have a larger impact .
but , once the political franchise was enlarged , the working class got organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals began competing with ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . such policies could then be subjugated entirely to demands for the gold standard and freedom of capital mobility . the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to the gold standard in the interwar period . the attempt to reconstitute a pre-world war i model globalization crash in 1931 , when domestic politics drove the british government to elect domestic reflation over the gold standard . the bretton woods regime ’s architects kept that lesson in mind as they redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . yet the region ’s women farmers are often able to reap meager harvests not because of inclement or poor soil quality , but because of their gender – or , more accurately , due to the dense web of laws , policies , programs , and fees that place them at a significant disadvantage . washington , dc , more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture .
after all , a substantial share of incoming refugee populations are said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . though there are pockets of high youth unemployment in europe these days , labor-force ratios to the elderly will drop substantially in the longer run . so , as the german government and some corporate leaders , including the ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , open-minded access to refugee absorption and integration can help mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . beyond the need to moderate human misery , which fills the tv screens and front pages of newspapers , is the imperative not to miss out on the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including deteriorating retooling and retooling workers , especially the long-unemployed .
digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of employee benefits and responsibilities to employers . and when access to a broad array of valued benefits , from health insurance to pensions , is made conditional on registering their businesses and paying taxes , there will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their benefits , ultimately acquiring the safety net , like that of a full-time contracted employees . for example , if an independent worker drives just one hour to uber , and walks a dog over another hour on rover , every platform would contribute an equal amount relative to one ’s or her benefit . with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , gig workers ’ opportunities are set to increase .
for starters , they need to take action to protect the rural environment , ensure animal-welfare provision and improve education , knowledge transfer , and entrepreneurial training for farmers and agricultural workers . implementing ( and funding ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . at the same time , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector can seize the new technologies . at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters , by building more effective and robust protection systems . they could , for example , make it easier to provide affordable insurance to farmers , or to create some type of mutual-assistance schemes .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key interest rates have stayed near zero for at least six years now . the policy ’s unintended consequences are becoming more apparent , and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . crisis management has resulted in large market distortions , with some segments ’ performance no longer explainable through fundamental economic data . financial markets are flooded with liquidity as part of the currency .
indeed , when the need for computer inquiry is improved , form is a key one . the telephone dial did not appear until 1919 , when a first set of self-designated genome-interface scientists at the west electric considered what the most counterintuitive form should be . we had already seen hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone that allows for the gestural finger motions ; but , in the intelligence community , concept visualization could be so radical that most ordinary users could hardly have recognized what it was . at the same time , when the need for improving a computer ’s inter-connection , form is a key . it is easy to forget that years ago , telephones had no buttons , or condial , you had to pick up a handset and ask the operator to make connections .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name means “ foresight , ” ” ” ” ” ” because he was always looking ahead , in contrast to his metalimetheus , whose name means “ hindsight . ” but epimetheus was charmed with pandora and heedlessly welcomed her over the course of life . it was only later that she truly became aware of his dreadful mistake . yet that is not always the whole story . as the more rational and justifiably paranoid of the two , prometheus tried to warn her brother not to accept zeus an dangerous gift .
indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is simple : one can argue that the instant cause of a breakup , when scrutinized closely , is not really all that grave . the problem is that the draft constitution would give the eu a new , much simpler method for taking a majority vote in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each member state has a certain number of votes , weighted according to the population , but the small countries are protected by having proportionally fewer votes than large countries . the odds are that they will , and that way , do the eu will do this time around . this system is well known as a qualified majority vote .
rome – the price of many staple foods surged dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many in poorer and developing countries alike . international prices of maize , rice , or wheat , for example , peaked at their highest levels in 30 years , causing political and economic instability – and , in turn , leading to food riots – in many countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , high growth demand for crops by bio-fuels , falling global food commodities stockpiles , and lower cereal output . strong economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as have been protectionist measures , such as export restrictions . while these factors undoubtedly place upward downward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain the steep upward hikes .
the similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring . erdoğan ’s aspirations to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world drive him to collude with that challenge to the western-devised regional order . indeed , turkey offered logistical backing to the islamic state , even as it enabled the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . in a video produced after the fighting for the mosul dam in august , the group appealed to the “ end of sykes-picot , ” ” ” and pointed out the need to redraw the western-imposed political map of the middle east . this highlights another issue that turkey and the islamic state ( isis ) converge : the kurds .
so far , he has been unable to claim outright that those markets act at the behest of “ world jewry ” ( architects , many turkish islamists believe , the result of the 1908 young turk revolution , and the secular republicans that arose in the aftermath of world war i ) . but perhaps no contemporary leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannabes authoritarian , donald trump . it should never be forgotten that trump himself wormed his way into us politics by promoting a racist “ birther ” argument , which claimed that then-president barack obama was not born in the american , and thus disqualifying no for the office that he held . since entering the white house , the lunacy has only grown stronger . but his heart supporters hear the dog whistle behind his condemnations of misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump .
at the same time , we are doing everything possible to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . in the energy sector , we are being privatizing state-owned energy distributors . to ensure full transparency of the tender process , and eliminating the problems that have been experienced in the us , western advisers are freed us . for our intent , attracting big western energy firms with experience on this field is as strategic investors as possible . indeed , ten leading international energy firms will participate in first sector privatization .
even so , chinese policy choices have profoundly influenced other asian countries , with china the “ state-capitalist ” economic model now mimicked elsewhere in the region . japan , korea , korea , and singapore , of course , have similar policy models in the past ( though they later adjusted them according to their gdp growth ) . in japan , postal services , which have been privatized , are supposed to be re-nationalized , and the role of government finance is strengthening . nevertheless , these countries now appear to be espousing forms of state capitalism , as well as returning industrial policies ( encouraged just like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which provided a new rationale for returning government intervention ) . japan ’s near-bankrupt air lines have been rescued by a government-bailout , an facilities that seem increasingly common .
without the ecb ’s commitment , in place since 2012 to keep sovereign-debt yields from soaring , lingering risks to the eurozone , – and , indeed , to the european union ’s entire edifice – would be laid bare by sovereign-debt defaults . yet at least europeans have taken advantage of falling commodity prices . on the other hand , with heavy reliance on commodity exports , many emerging economies stressed the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . capital flight would materially add to their plight , in some cases disastrously so .
let the world remember that gaza ’s crisis is an manmade catastrophe . and let the world hold a note that conditions are worse today than at any time since the onset of occupation . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in extreme poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food aid . nearly half of the labor force is jobless ; local industries have broken down . water and wastewater systems are failing ; the garbage accumulate to the streets .
new york – the european union needs to accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that has transformed it this year , driven by a growing influx of refugees from a manageable issue into yet another political crisis . every member state has selfishly focused its own national interests , often acting against the interests of everybody else . this precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and the authorities responsible for the rule of law and order . asylum-seekers have been their primary victims , and their property has been the primary responsibility of political expediency . what is needed is a comprehensive plan for responding to the crisis ; one that reasserts effective governance over influx of asylum-seekers to ensure that they take sides in a safe , orderly way and at a pace reflecting europe ’s capacity to absorb them .
despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and expanding his hold on it indefinitely , there is every reason to doubt that he would be willing to gamble to a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining rapid growth . to be sure , economists would acknowledge that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently eliminated many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now enables him to replace the credit-fueled debt-financed growth model with something more sustainable . this is where the technologists come in , by offering new ways to correct or avoiding potential mistakes . of course , whether they are right remains to be seen .
american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create intra-european conflict . at the time , he was derided and viewed as an entrenched challenger to the european project . sadly , his insight was right : european countries today are at loggerheads not despite a common currency , but precisely because of it . in the 1920 ’s and the 1930 ’s , european representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving it ( at the time , largely german reparations ) . history suggests that the international argument over debt and transfers poses grave dangers .
whereas a key distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people remain divided over different social orders , defined by unequal tastes and lifestyles . the same could be said of china today , where the loopholes between its rich and poor , urban and rural populations , and coastal and inland cultures are so great that they are far harder than before for people from a varied journey of life to a sense of shared plights and ambition . to be sure , not a single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society at all . sometimes , such as when violence was used recently to quell the south chinese peasants ’ protesting official land grabs , the ccp continues to demonstrate its willingness to take advantage of “ boot-on-the-face ” restraint . lately , still , there have been more moments to favor huxley ’s vision of political order over orwell ’s .
they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances . this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunity face uphill battles in winning over voters . fears of losing this battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response to the left . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what government can , and should , do not are immutable . similar trends exist in many european countries , as well as in southern europe .
copenhagen – in one of his first economic-policy pronouncements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama focused on addressing climate change and making clear on both his priorities and the facts on which those priorities rest . such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders worldwide , even as he neglects to address the question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . in fact , unfortunately , both are actually weak or even wrong . obama ’s policy outline was presented through videos to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors of global warming summit , and was shown once more in poznan , poland ’s leaders assembled to flesh out the roadmap for global warming . according to obama , “ few challenges facing america and the world are any more urgent than fighting climate change . ”
but fusion identity was always unfinished , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still seeped in a century later , through the uncertainties generated by a northern irish “ backstop ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” decidedly english . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective purpose , just as it did a narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . before the creation of an offshore empire , first in north america and the caribbean , and then in india and southeast asia , the english had built a land empire by expanding from a south of the british isles to a northwestern style . still , for centuries , the british empire generated wealth , supplied feedstock materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of the british isles . thus , while the “ outer empire ” allowed for convergence in the uk ’s distinct national identities around a shared british identity , an “ inner empire ” was , after all , decidedly english .
moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . whereas a majoritarian government may drive roughshod over individual interests , corrupt regimes are stealing from everybody . that is why corruption , in turn , has fueled the mass protests , from bucharest to brasilia , all over the last year . freedom of speech and other basic right is not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians argue . they are indispensable for discouraging free societies as they are , and they are frequently so .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic views should be tried against this disenchantment background , not with any ideal moral or economic standard . viewed in other words , trumpism might be the solution to liberalism ’s crisis , not an portend in its disintegration . the promise of working with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is sensible , although this implies that bashar al-assad ’s victory may well be a victory for bashar al-assad ’s regime . viewed from the vantage point , trump ’s isolationism is a populist way of saying that america needs to withdraw from liabilities that it has neither the force nor the will to honor . disengaging peacefully from a exposed global responsibilities will amount to trump ’s greatest challenge .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against the then-prime minister shimon peres ’ supposed intention to “ split jerusalem ” in may . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that might well unravel the israel-palestine peace process . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present the framework agreement for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is a simply a non-starter . in a last-ditch effort to finesse the proposal ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who had largely avoided assuming a proactive role in the peace process during his second term in meeting with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position . but changing netanyahu ’s thinking will not be easy , not least owing to the domestic political pressure he faces .
new haven – last summer ’s last day marked the beginning of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks , the american federal reserve , and the bank of japan . in doing nothing , the fed has done the least , which is precisely the problem now . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies woefully disconnected from the economies to which they were entrusted to manage . and the alchemists of the boj have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . moreover , their latest actions reinforce a worrisome commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism among monetary policy , financial markets , and an asset-dependent economy .
it was henry kissinger , who argued in his wake the terrorist attacks of new york and washington of 2001 , that tragedy could turn into opportunity . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , there is very much a solution to russia . today , in a strategic environment set back by terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , there is very much a solution to russia . unless the prague summit can be rolled out with no grand new initiative , it is simply because the us has already launched its new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . much has already been accomplished over the last six months to transform rome ’s political message into practical cooperation .
yet , over the last few years , the regime has been pressing for shrewd public-relations campaigns to depict suleimani as napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . and , as one of the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders not tainted with accusations of corruption , he was mooted as a likely presidential candidate in next march ’s elections . meanwhile , over the last few years , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime ’s terrorist activities outside of iran and his puppet master of his proxies across the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet he was an even more complicated figure to iranians . while regime hardliners considered him a hero , many of the iranians who lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations or who oppose the regime ’s assaults on iranian dissidents within the diaspora saw it differently .
to square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he plans to cut his corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from wealth taxation . a vocal critic of protectionism will push the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . his endorsement of the el khomri law , which has made it easier to fire workers , and his opposition to the 35-hour week in response to his desire to boost the french labor market ’s “ flexibility . ” yet he also wants to boost an economy , with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and expansion of the welfare state .
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by the feeling that because the soviet empire collapsed , dangers of war can cross the list of potential risks . america , they claim , should pay attention to its own problems ; instead , it should avoid getting involved in a world where its attempts at doing good are rewarded by ingratitude . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . never in the modern era has isolationism kept america out of its peril ; rather , it delayed engagement when the conflagrations show ablaze . in the end , america pays 1,000 times as much for its original interest than would pay has become engaged at the start of the crisis , or , better yet , ever earlier .
exploiting the asset-backed security model , the us has recently joined the un ’s green climate fund , as well as china to structure a $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this will enable pension funds and insurance companies to finance , indirectly , the necessary facilities upgrades at mom-and-pop stores and workshops , from maritime-del fuego . there are many more areas where those committed to fighting climate change can follow our example . here , too , a creative solution to the solutions we face can be found . traffic-clogged cities need better public goods , and funding the expansion of fast-transit ( brt ) systems is a proven path for reducing congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , i believe , regain control over its borders , enabling it to strengthen and enforce the necessary limits on migration . again , eurobonds , a green partnership with china , and intra-europe unity could make all the difference . the political terms of a new grand coalition government would seem clear . the spd should hold out for ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , while the cdu/csu holds the tatters . such an alliance would also enable a new foreign policy for europe , one that fosters peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that do not depend so heavily on america .
when there is enough excess supply in an economy , promoting supply-side productivity is practically useless , without efforts to boost demand . fortunately , this is precisely what abe intends to do . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the total impact of monetary policy will diminish , owing to the increasing impact of prices more than output . that is why it is high time that japan ’s leaders shift their focus from a demand-oriented first and second arrows to a supply-oriented third lac : a new growth strategy . either way , engaging in monetary policy ’s success is difficult to deny .
race was always a provocative subject when the needs of a science and statistics intersect with politics . there are two major reasons for this to happen . now that the debate is heating up in france again , as the planned introduction of the eu 's " ethnic statistics " did , it generated a vicious dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . the first concerns the republican principle , enshrined in the us constitution , that recognizes only citizens and accept no distinction between their origins , due to their origin , race , or religion . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and re-confirmed in 1978 , french government officials feel forbidden in compiling information about a citizen 's ethnic or racial origins , whether genuine or alleged , when engaged in a census or some other effort to gather statistical information around the population .
no one prefers to live in a community where bribes must be given to security of basic public services , like health care and education . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an efficient mix of shrewd preventive strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinning the belief that greed can always be unlearned , accountability can and should be taught , and impunity can cease . in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . preventive management should begin with an education aimed at raising citizens ’ ’ ’ ’ expectations . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for attaining it .
recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in a society is high , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction grows higher . but the objective is surely worth embracing , for the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of welfare . among other reasons , it is commercial agreements that are easy to reach and efficiently . convincing americans , russians , nigerian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may indeed be controlled might seem like a futile task . in these countries , government ministers are then compelled to resign for petty infractions that would appear trivial in other countries .
there is an urgent need to “ restock a emergency arsenal , ” ” particularly when there is relatively little scope for “ relax ” monetary policy . the fed has started the process of normalizing monetary policy , but it has not finished the job , with president donald trump doing the best to prevent them from resisting action by hectoring the sidelines . the three musketeers remain positive about some elements of a post-crisis program . bank capital has been boosted strongly , and transparency in derivatives markets has materially enhanced . as they are putting it , “ using fiscal adrenaline could be constrained just when the required most .
as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s major trade relations with china would be undermined when the dissident liu xiaobo was invited to obtain the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . in response , china complained loudly , refused to allow liu to pick up his nobel prize , and even threatened norway with financial repercussions . nonetheless , the same month , one of china ’s largest oil companies has concluded a drilling deal with norway ’s statoil company , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions will not stop entrepreneurship . so western diplomats negotiating with china should cite lower-level officials ’ bluff and focus on projecting a signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that ultimately decisions are taken quietly at higher levels by pragmatic leaders who are genuinely susceptible to pressure . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china .
that means the ’s focus must shift from speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation – which implies financial-sector regulation and antitrust and corporate-governance laws , in conjunction with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets are not to become rigged casinos . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth at least in the world . we may hoped-for us to demonstrate more leadership in reforming the global financial system , by advocating for stronger international regulation , a sound global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign-debt ; in addressing global warming ; in democratizing us international economic institutions ; and providing aid to poorer countries . americans should hope for all of this , though i am not sanguine about getting much of it , america muddle through – here another small program of struggling students and homeowners , the end of bush ’s tax cut for a millionaires , but no wholesale tax reform , serious cutbacks on defense spending , or considerable progress on global warming . today ’s globalization has rendered all countries more interdependent , in turn demanding greater global cooperation .
little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states seek to defy iran its own hegemonic ambitions in the region . indeed , iran is the only country openly distorted by its desire to crush another un member . this issue , of course , is entirely outside israel of ’s control . the ongoing struggle within the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . nevertheless , the stakes are far higher than in the seventeenth-century taliban , for iran represents a menace that combines a fanatic religion with determination to acquire nuclear weapons .
the strategic relevance of the dramatic heights , overlooking much of the north israeli region of galilee , is obvious . because syria , bereft of soviet backing , is less of a threat to israel , jerusalem can be more flexible than it was before , when the golan was defending israel not only against syria , but against the bloc seemingly stretch of all the way to vladivostok . so , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists , just as it is the political will on both sides . for israel a quid pro quo for return to the golan is not some piece of paper with the usual platitudes of peace and coexistence . yet both parties ’ agendas are distinct : whereas syria focuses on the symbolic significance of the golan heights , israel wants concrete , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern state , just as in the end of syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon , a country that is practically a syrian protectorate .
whereas the army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are all too disgruntled those on the recent policing and military reforms to engage in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces originating with chechen war veterans might cherish the excitement of sticking it with moscow ’s fat cats . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would be hard to sustain . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful to the salary hike that putin ’s united russia party announced – with much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma elections . in the fall of 1989 , an estimated east germans joined their fellow citizens in protests that brought down the berlin wall . yet , over the course of this year in china as a whole , the protesters in beijing trounced troops from inner mongolia who fail to understand mandarin , with little sympathy for big-city dwellers .
the crisis of 1992 proved that the existing system was inherently unstable . but not proceeding would also have been a disaster , and not an act of its own . not a move forward towards europe would establish europe for an even more disruptive crisis . that is why europe ’s leaders have taken on the ambitious steps that they have done . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government-bond purchases would similarly lead to catastrophe .
but its diplomatic cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime , while continuing to deliver it with military hardware , can serve only to undermine the bilateral relationship , just as an american approach toward musharraf ’s regime has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such a foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , after obama visited japan for the first time as president , he emphasized that he is from hawaii , and proud to be “ america ’ first pacific president . ” two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ the america of the pacific century , ” signaling a shift in america ’s global strategy . of course , the us argues that it , too , knows all about democracy .
mr. bush 's international credibility , they ought to emphasize , does not suffer through " avoiding all-out war , " but gains further through controlling the hitherto covert military efforts of iraq . to give extra credence to their praise , they should abandon the doubt that if war becomes america 's only option . but they should also underscore that the war is not the sole , and certainly not the " serious consequence " to follow from the iraqis ' failure . of course , it is true that some in america 's allies do better than others to get those points across the audience on the other side of the atlantic . alas for germans the government , by its behavior in chancellor schroeder 's re-election campaign last september , they have maneuvered itself from having any authority on the issue .
africa ’s smallholder family farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations , face an even tougher bureaucratic hurdles : no paper to show that land they call home is theirs . this is particularly true of female farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . insecure over their ability to control their farms in the coming season , smallholder farmers ’ planning horizons are diminishing . rather than investing in terracing fields , planting trees , and buying high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s smallholder farmers are seeking to maximize short-term gains . studies show that there can be no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or accomplish other core development goals without strengthening land rights , especially for women .
it is not that europe ’s endgame is on the agenda ; it is only that people have started to think through a possible low-futures into which an end to emu might place their agenda on the issue . but this does not appear to be what the german electorate wishes ; and that makes the complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable . that is enough to shake asset prices around worldwide , and it is not the task that germany must do . i believe that germany would have been better off a decade under more neo-liberal policies . coupled with all of this is northern european discontent with central bankers , specifically with the ecb and the euro .
the results in march 2010 general elections gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than second-seat finnish , maliki ’s ruling coalition state . its organizers , of course , are loath to describe it as sunni parties . rather , they describe themselves as a national party that encourages people of every orientations to participate . but , within iraq the region , very few people , sunni or shia – not to see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to the resumption of sunni leadership – are the highest in the region . that vision has great appeal among those seeking to see a less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq .
but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” ” ” ” with far too many branch networks , far too few deposits , and even funding costs that far exceed those of their more successful peers . to restore stability to europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimate , will require at least one-third of european banks to close or merge . for deutsche bank , market speculators already appear to expect a merger , like commerzbank , another german institution . in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector – representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion – remains weak , and unable to generate sustainable earnings . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and eventually europe ’s entire political experiment .
they should take special care to avoid real-estate bubbles , because real estate represents a vast share of total wealth , and a vital source of collateral in finance . monetary tightening can slow growth temporarily ; curbing asset growth is notoriously difficult ; and the kinds of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly popular . in today ’s febrile political environment , it certainly will not be easier to simplify matters . but the severe rise in low-quality , well-leveraged loans should also be a concern . none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks .
so perhaps it is a good idea for the eu to prepare for a mechanism that spells out how debt can trimmed . many economists have been arguing for a case based on arithmetic calculation . but the european central bank , in particular by the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled the case against debt reduction , a case in which it is politically momentous and deeply moral . in the run-up to the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new debt approach . indeed , the principle of not reneging on public debt is deeply intertwined with the evolution of the rule of law , a representative government , and a modern democracy .
and , while someday , the fed will almost surely embrace this advice ( i , too , have published on the issue ) , goodfriend barely survived the american senate banking committee . sadly , the battle over the fed ’s independence is far from over . in fact , some conservative house republicans object to another of their appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession , or even financial crisis . by and large , however , the us senate has given trump whatever it wants , with many republicans having embraced a disrupter – such as the fed ’s disciple of ron , paul , or another highly conservative preaching a throwback to a pre-world war i gold standard . trump may just keep his powder dry up so long as any genuine conflict erupts .
yet india still faces many challenges : almost 300 million people living in extreme poverty ; the spreading naxalite insurgency ; the hazards of the terrorist attacks of ala mumbai ; and sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage the burgeoning middle class have been based on the expectation of better infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supply , and more efficient transportation facilities ? these problems will not be solved overnight ; they will not be solved . but the growing conviction that tomorrow will be better off will keep india a polity stable .
empirically , few firms get this right : america ’s national public radio and bbc have both been sehacked more recently by sea level , while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . finally , the ap is unlikely to confront financial sanctions for this flaw . the proliferation of security lapses in the mean that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders than they are to throw their first stone into a corporate state that is violated . because few mechanisms can bar the proliferation of flouts tweets , and given the high-profile response that successful hackers can expect , twitter will remain a malicious hoaxes vehicle , even as technological barriers force attacks to become more contentious . a criminal prosecution of casualties stemming from a thuxed tweet would face almost insurmountable hurdles .
attribution means the ability to assign likely causes of an event for human activity or any other factor factors . a new detection and attribution is sharpening our knowledge , as well as giving us an even greater cause to concern . detection means determining whether some extreme events are part of conventional weather fluctuations , or signs of a deeper , prolonged transformation . several studies over the past year have shown that researchers actually recognize a long-run response to climate change during a period of rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and powerful storms . by touting cutting-edge climate models , researchers are not just detecting a prolonged response to climate change ; they are attributing at least some extremes to human causes .
the us may cut its deficits more rapidly than it would have in the non-cooperative case , but only if the surplus countries work to reduce their excess saving . the mutual assessment process upon which the g-20 nations agreed is a crucial component of the program of rebalancing , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . if it works , what will emerge pledges from the g-20 to undertake policies globally – on the condition that others stick to their liabilities – will be globally beneficial . indeed , rebalancing is not the only – or even the only – cooperative imperative . the international exchange-rate system in the room , at least partly , is being broken .
given the power of major tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require greater government intervention . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the 2020 us presidential election in the united states . specifically , senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – on my view , the two strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to question president donald trump – have called for the disruption of major tech firms . but the solutions being proposed , including by legal scholars like linda khan , tend to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived .
during each of my field visits , i marveled at how these efforts affect women ’s lives . on one recent trip , i met with rasmata , a young mother , who was told by me that her savings group ’s safety net was managing to support her family , despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her recent deaths , and a lingering drought . she became diversifying her incomes , managing its finances , and even adopting climate-smart farming techniques . the best part was that she described herself as being a “ cogent , deferential , rigorous , ambitious , and ambitious woman . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial circumstances or education , deserve to ascribe to themselves .
if you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate this possibility . stock market values in the us fossil-fuel industry , which is premised on the belief that companies are allowed to extract and burn whatever known reserves , then plummet . investing in these firms , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . as anyone who receives investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” that reality implies yet another compelling case for divestment .
after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 , and the subsequent soviet implosion , that g2 world gave way to the eu-n order in which all other countries ( n ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . democratic and market-based capitalism seemingly won out through what francis fukuyama called the “ end of history . ” the ensuing quarter-century was a period of liberal , rules-based multilateralism . democratic and market-based capitalism seemingly won out through what francis fukuyama called the “ end of history . ” the united states broadly championed that order , it became clear to the iraq war of 2003 , and that , like most countries , benefited enormously from a combination of globalization and the emergence of new , complex value chains .
instead , after four years of declining real incomes , the government has announced deep-seated unpopular pension reforms , which include raising the retirement age . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has led to weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . addressing russia ’s ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ economic grievances will not be easy . russia ’s ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western sanctions over crimea . with few rallying options for promoting public opinion , putin may well have decided that it is time to “ remind ” ” ” russians that they are under attack .
first , the member states say that they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 established new institutions to do this ; at amsterdam last year ostensibly to strengthen those institutions . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress . this stands in stark contrast with other aspects of the european agenda . both the goal of economic and monetary union and the single currency , also adopted at maastricht in 1991 , are a bold , even revolutionary program ; some critics say reckless ; but the fact is that the single currency will become a reality in just two months or so .
only an explicit , up-front approval by a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international backing that military intervention – except to clear un self-defense – requires . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . that is true for the actions contemplated by individual nations , for temporary alliances , or for more permanent alliances , like nato . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , particularly at this late stage , alter a fundamental perception of that intervention , both in and outside the arab world and beyond . this last point came to a heart for the problems facing iraq .
indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat to a military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . syria ’s balkanization among a country of diverse ethnic and religious groups is a clear predictable outcome . this regional alignment need not necessarily be anti-western , but surely it will be if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily . in the meantime , civil war is raging within syria , accompanied by a humanitarian disaster . to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive , but is determined to struggle until the end .
in newsrooms , from serbia to south africa , the country ’s taxpayer-generated financing tends to expand . unfortunately , while this windfall might be adding more programming in afghanistan , it only deepens the industry ’s woes . in fact , governments ’ budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenues in the us . in newsrooms , from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is already rising . unfortunately , while this windfall could putting more programming in the air , it only deepens the industry ’s woes .
as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right of shielding ” ” against intergovernmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even as enforcement remains fairly precarious . the next great new step was to build the concept of post-world war ii humanitarian intervention in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . finally , similar developments in politics and international law led the way in the creation of an international judicial system . with its establishment having resulted from a long and dreadful experience , the underlying idea of modernity – that strength of states and their rulers should be subject to higher standards of law , thereby placing individual rights above state sovereignty – took great strides . these developments were anything but accidental .
axelrod hosted tournaments among major game theorists , as well as political scientists , to identify the most effective approaches in a recurring prisoner ’s dilemma . according to the tft approach , a bilateral game should start with collaboration : if the other players behaves cooperatively , so should you . only when a other player ’s defects – which are they , it starts to depict non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . of course , when the other player they operate , the windfall might be tempting to defect , in order to elevate your own payoff , and potentially even to secure a windfall . axelrod – the strategy most likely eventually was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy .
most of the rest of the world ’s malnourished children live in india . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the congress is soft on fearmongering and demonizing muslims as an existential menace to india has been badly misfired . unfortunately for india , however , the economic trajectory that the congress of plotting , though might well boost growth over the short term , ultimately appears to be on a collision course , with equity and sustainability . notwithstanding rhetoric about a “ inclusive ” growth rate , ” india ’s ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . as for the hindu right , anyone hoping for peace in the region , and reduced tensions within india among religious communities , are relieving the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) .
but it is relatively clear that even in the 1970s , there was not enough level of empirical evidence in friedman ’s support for justifying their growing dominance . and , indeed , there can be no denying the fact that friedman ’s remedies turned out to be an inadequate response to the great recession – a powerful hint that it would fall similarly short of was tried during the great depression . admitting that the monetarist cure was insufficient would require mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age . friedman ’s domination of thought at the beginning of the great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting them than with ensuring that the science of economics was all too often tainted by politics . in that case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman , and to apply keynesian , minskyite policies on a large enough scale to address the problems that the great recession was presented .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . on the one hand , the euro has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export economy , from speculative attack and chaos to currency volatility . on the other side , the second stage of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . german actions throughout the crisis have been plainly contradictory . rising intra-eu tensions have been the inevitable result .
sudan ’s government ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal . after all , the regime ’s repressive nature in khartoum is at the root of a number of conflicts that have ripped apart . indeed , since the civil war ended in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently had to confront militias operating as government proxies . provided that the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process , derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for sudan ’s peoples and entire region , is a real possibility . moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the objective of destabilizing the predominantly christian south .
( hydroelectric generation emits no co2 , but there are only a few remaining locations around the world that can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . ) one approach is to capture co2 at power stations as co2 or gas is being burned . another is to capture it directly from the atmosphere using specially crafted chemical processes . another is to capture it outright from the aviation using specially designed chemical processes . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a huge scale .
figures recently released by the new york times attorney general and andrew cuomo indicate that nine large financial firms paid their workers aggregate compensation exceeding $ 600 billion between 2003 and 2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization has substantially receded . in the post-crisis financial order , governments need to assume the role of monitors and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur . it is important to distinguish between the two sources of concern about pay in financial firms . one set of concerns arises from a shareholder ’s perspective . such patterns can raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures are not well designed to serve their interests .
it ’s time to call a spade a spade : the republican party is constrained in substance . consider the question of “ bump stocks , ” the gun modification report that the perpetrator of the las vegas massacre used to fire more quickly . some republican senators have now drawn praise for indicating that they will endorse the devices ’ ban . yet when democratic senator diane feinstein proposed a similar prohibition in 2013 , republicans overwhelmingly opposed it . such apparently manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to just “ fake news . ”
until 2000 , that share had been falling , to 22 % , and , more than 11 % since 2010 , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . chile today is very different from chile ’s 20 years ago . its 29 % population that left behind of poverty are now the incipient middle class , with its new aspirations and goals . as a result , demands for more opportunity and improved living conditions have grown more louder . chileans clamps up for efficient housing , access to improved health services , a safer environment , and access to more education – the most important drivers of social advancement .
( the first attempt , in iowa , where she speaks to roughly eight people in closed-door sessions , has not worked out very well on this point . ) on the campaign trail , clinton is the only person well known to launch her run her campaign twice . true , hillary clinton offers many programs that she would put pressure on as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is hardly any theme to her pudding . this impressive , remarkably , intelligent woman just does n’t have a sense of politics that is being demanded at the top of the list . success in america ’s presidential politics requires super-b intuition ; come fast on one ’s legs , and , most importantly , a compelling rationale for running .
italy did not have a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , with senior staff tell anyone to listen that europe ’s entire sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . employing slick powerpoint presentations , with titles like “ defaults ” in today ’s advanced economies : pointless , undesirable , and unlikely , ” the fund attempted to persuade investors that eurozone debt was solid as a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were no serious concerns , owing to anticipated growth and reforms . as situations deteriorated , one might have imagined that the imf would mark its beliefs to the market , as it was , and adopted a more prudent tone . never mind the manifest flaw in the fund ’s rationale for doing so , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policies and implementation risks far more akin to those of emerging markets than to truly advanced economies like germany and the united states .
another alternative , championed by a large and growing single body for research , in both economics and psychology , is a direct measurement of well-being or happiness . but there are several drawbacks , including the fact that the indicators of well-being change little over time . happiness surveys in affluent countries , for example , typically display a score of six or seven out of a 0-10 scale . one way to make such indicators such indicators more directly relevant to policy would be to track the ways that people use their time and attach wellbeing to each . surveys of reported levels of well-being are now available for many countries , and the idea of scaling down to jpmorgan chase through this such a metric has powerful proponents .
the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which had been de-regulated by financial services , made risk-bearing behavior city the norm . these reforms sowed the seeds for the 2008 financial crisis . the shift toward finance that thatcher fueled heightened inequality , making the economy more volatile . if that is the metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was an inability . her “ right to buy ” policy triggered an upward spiral in house prices , which encouraged households to take on more debt and more debt .
yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated staff in the same way that countries ’ unique links . and , yes , it bravely takes the lead in shining more account of the economic impact on gender inequality and climate change . but its forward-looking analyses have too often proved backward-looking , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to substantial revisions . even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy advice , particularly of those pertaining to advanced economies , has little impact ( putting it politely ) . yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the linkages between financial markets and the real economy .
this has been particularly necessary , because women ’s circumstances are one of the leading benchmarks that the outside world , and especially the west , is uses to evaluate the arab world as a result . and , sadly , such assessment tends to focus on the supposed immobilization that derives from islamic norms , which obscures knowledge of the real changes that are taking place . this prevents many from seeing , much less evaluate , the profound change that is taking place in arab societies – and on how women drive these changes forward . as a result , the west risks depriving it of an important pivot to understanding today ’s arab world and , as it will tomorrow , ever since . indeed , arab societies ’ predominant view often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free of their belief that islam confines all arab women on an equal footing , when , in reality , they experience very different conditions .
in a lone crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-focused cultures that look at inherited rituals , morals , and guidance values ; counterproductive cultures in which people behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that respond predominantly to external norms and peer influences . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives ; with his three types now competing to define the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of heightened literacy and modern technology that is fanning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” – religialists and top-down modernizers . taking advantage of their technology-driven skills and instantly are spreading ancient religious texts and western-originating literature , the two camps are fighting the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , religious books are among the most curated works of literature in the arab world .
china ’s ’s economy grew at a astounding average annual rate of 10 % or above its level for more than three decades . until relatively recently , there was little reason to question such a question . in fact , hundreds of millions of chinese had already been entering the middle class in a state of plenty . china ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed an attractive place to many other developing countries , especially in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which started in the united states , and seemed to discredit american-style liberal capitalism . indeed , china overtook japan as the world ’s second-largest economy .
the us then established the sustained normal trade relations with china , refusing to brand its government a currency manipulator . the reason that this narrative is wrong is simple . there are good reasons why america ’s adopted policies to inspire poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . in assisting mexico , brazil , and other developing countries as they grow , the us gives them wealthier trading partners . furthermore , there is a strong case to be made that american national security will improve where , for the time being , it will take 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world learn how america has helped their countries to thrive rather than try to hold them as poor as they can for as long .
according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , nearly 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and about half of eu payments are conducted in cash ; and , on value , over half of payments are conducted in cash . as is often the case in europe , there are differences among member countries : the share of money transactions ranges ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but it is an open question as to whether a still very fragmented digital-payment sector will actually help customers more than the companies that offer payment solutions . there is one more fundamental problem with arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least within europe , do not want it . yet , in total , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong ; indeed , it is becoming stronger .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . one vehicle failed to break through the border crossings ; another penetrated israeli territory before it stopped israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) . earlier this month , the jihadi terrorists ambushed an egyptian military base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers , and sped onto their doorstep with israel . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian coup – in which he had dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the leader of the army ’s ’s ’s ’s supreme command – did not diminish the significance of the troubles .
cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated wto rules that fail to account for issues like soes ’ subsidies to soes . but , with countries relying largely on active diplomacy and soft power alone , they have all to lose out from a protracted and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to choose sides . but they also recognize that , with bilateralism , small countries attempting to negotiate on equal terms with superpowers , they are not an option . to defend their interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . what is really needed is a commitment to multilateralism , not an endorsement of the status quo .
indeed , grassroots assessments of progress against these indicators are intended to supplement government-led reporting mechanisms . moreover , a few countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments employ new national sdg 16 data in their day-to-day decision-making . meanwhile , ghana and benin emphasize budget spending that has high sdg 16 impact , with ghana ’s ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its financial priorities are aligned with its stated pledges under this destination . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” ” are making targets central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all public-sector bureaucracies in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies have an obligation to sign performance deals with the central government in identifying sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates and explaining how they are integrated into policy and development planning .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that inequality is traditionally one of the world ’s great political-economic problems . it is hard , to say the least , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last 50 years , which would transfer any significant portion of the wealth of today ’s rich nations into today ’s ’s poor nations . but the alternatives that would make the southern richer at the expense of shrinking the north ’s wealth would require a wholesale revolution in human psychology . i can easily envision alternatives , such as the communist victories in post-world war ii elections in italy and france that would have impoverished nations now in the wealthy north . i can also envision alternatives that would have quality nations as well : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 rather than 1976 would have done the job there .
and , with debt restructurings stipulated that all creditors that accept it could demand the same level of terms as holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook for a further $ 140 billion more . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion , and their assets would be worth $ 15 billion . and , with debt restructurings stipulated that all creditors that accept it could demand the same terms as holdouts receive , argentina might well be on the hook beyond which up to $ 140 billion . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . repayment , on the other hand , would devastate argentina ’s economy .
business can moan and the media can carp up , but the answers to many of the great global problems are more – or at least better , government , not less . major international finance institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and regional development banks – are leading the way in working hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . the authority of the united nations has been frayed . it will be essential after bali to reflect seriously on the next stage of the wto and its role in the international trading system . until we reverse the trend in declining multilateralism , governments ’ capacity to respond to global challenges will not improve .
economists and moralists were united in their belief that you should actually spend less than you earn , in terms of saving ” for a proverbial rainy day or old-age . taking into debt was long associated with the state of profligacy or fecklessness . the same attitude governed institutional debt , with its essential purpose . and , if a person became indebted , it made a point of honoring the obligation when it fell due by selling assets , reducing consumption , working tougher , or some combination of the three . indeed , it was often more than a good point of honor : failure to service debt on time landed the borrower in jail .
more broadly , marxism ’s defeat in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies that were overtly overtly . this example , in turns out to have the constructive leverage of surviving communist parties across asia and beyond . geopolitically , the post1989 gains have expanded far beyond the west , to say the least . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse made strategic boon to asia , eliminating an ominous empire , and opening the way for china to move quickly to pursue its own interests globally . though china ’s economic renaissance had already started under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) , after 1989 , laid out openly to subservient ideology to wealth creation .
in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi withdrew from the party , saying that it would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively and promises that he respect minority rights . yet the subsequent actions , intended to provide him ’s unprecedented executive power , raise concerns about these early positive steps . similarly , rather than condemn the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia , and the elimination of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained mostly silent . while none of these groups represents a majority perspective , they do exert significant influence , and probably believe that they act in the majority interest . developments following the arab spring might provide some indication of religious tolerance .
today , many of those responsible for the decision to break – notably deng xiaoping and others from party elders – have died . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; nearly every chinese person knows that official reevaluation is just a matter of time . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been divided about an event that has ever arisen . fourth , the reversal of the verdict on june 4th is india ’s historical inevitability , as is the desire of the majority of china ’s people . that group together will forces for democratization , both at home and abroad , to establish a truly democratic system .
by joining the euro , italy relinquished monetary sovereignty over an outside , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . it also committed concrete commitments with respect to the behavior of its own fiscal policies , although those constraints are not as " hard ” as those framing monetary policy in the process . mattarella ’s detractors argue that it overstepped its authority , allowing financial markets to veto the selection of a minister by a popularly elected government . those obligations place real limits on the italians ’ macroeconomic policy choices . above all , the lack of a domestic currency means that italians can not decide their own inflation goal or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies .
what , incidentally , might be a pakistani liberal stand for ? once again we see how messy western priorities can clamp down on a non-western nation . in any contest of thought , the extreme will usually have a triumph of triumph over the moderate . in the dark , congested lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the longing is not for democratic liberalism , but for the worshippers to unite behind a one true belief . in pakistan , the extremist now possessing islamic garb , standing for creator , faith , and a theocratic rule .
such laws are analogous to the regulations implemented by most industrialized world abattoirs , requiring that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to the pain of pain – when they have their throats cut , and are “ bled out . ” there are powerful grounds for believing that they should , and should , be the case . there are , for example , most mammals to the us – a method that minimizes their pain and distress as much as possible . there are , indeed , relatively stringent laws protecting animals ’ welfare . there are , if anything , circumstances where stunning fails and animals end up being killed while fully conscious ; but when stunning works , it does reduce animal suffering .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have steadily underplayed the skills of political communication , perhaps owing to such very different views from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech ; and , after taking office , a succession of false statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but enhanced it with his base . though large segments of the american population hated them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole and tried to appeal to the center . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” trump , on the other hand , appealed mainly to the minority that he was elected .
yes , several locations , such as venezuela , still has triple-digit price growth , but rarities now . indeed , having kept their own currencies , southern european countries might never have dug in as large a debt hole , giving them the chance to work on a partial default via runaway inflation . it is extremely plausible that , unless , instead of joining the euro , italy , and spain simply granted their central banks greater autonomy , they , too , would have low inflation today . greece is admittedly admittedly a less obvious case ; but , consider that many poor african countries were able to keep inflation well within single digits , one can presume that greece would manage as well . far more important to achieve price stability was the advent of a modern , independent central bank , an facility that helped reduce inflation levels dramatically worldwide .
in fact , one may have some compassion for an incumbent president with an aide to whom he wants to have it both ways , as cohn has done – letting his apparent anguish be well known without behaving on it . but problems can arise when a president chooses to distract at his chief economic adviser , and he wants to mend . cohn has been viewed as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices ; he wants to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . cohn ’s sin to be known publicly for having said that he had nearly resigned following the violence last month in charlottesville , va. speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump ” peaked in early february , when the us president suddenly slashed an agreement with democratic congressional leaders .
transparency – full disclosure of everything from income contracts to managing income and environmental liabilities – is critical to realizing a sector ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic potential , avoiding conflict and collapse . but , of course , the risks are as real as potential rewards . resource industries are a persistent source of corruption , conflict , and , on a scale , degradation . on may 17 , the advocacy organization that oxfam america sued the american securities and exchange commission to issue a final ruling implementing section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street and consumer reform act . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits often fit in less-developed countries that suffer from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and large-scale developmental and ecological challenges .
links to west africa are close and backward over the past century , with nearly 50,000 indians or a person of india living in the region . indeed , scores of people fly among accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis transiting through the middle east or europe . india ’s government seems unlikely to keep dumblings against all west africa ’s arrivals . while exit controls take place in all those affected regions of international airports , the virus ’s period of incubation ( which averages eight days in the present outbreak but can take as high as 21 days ) implies that someone with fewer symptoms from recent infection could make the trip to india without alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi ’s airport has indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government insists , were loosely enforced , with multiple passengers exiting the terminal holding food information cards , which should be turned over to immigration officials .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has cited some of the most draconian public-sector contractions of any developed country government ever attempted . but the most shocking aspect of the move is the fact that the arts and humanities departments are likely to be targeted more aggressively than the science and engineering supposedly better for business . the war against arts and humanities is nothing new , although this was the first time that the fighting migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered a surge in politics and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized a national endowment for arts . indeed , his education minister recently proclaimed that funding for britain ’s ’s ’s universities would be slashed by as much as 40 % .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a conference of national reconciliation , conflicting statements issued by saif al-islam and security officials caught me by surprise . the chief of internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in crimes that are currently being committed against libyans , has refused to call the process a “ reconciliation ” . to him , it was “ repentance from heresy . ” given the recent wave of rebellion , it is more apparent than ever that any of those “ reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world had previously been aimed only at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment of criminal abuses of power . what makes reform “ debate ” within those regimes boiled down to a struggle among different branches of the military apparatus over the best ways to preserve the status quo .
if credit is expanding too rapidly , the fed can raise the interest rate on which it pays on its deposit . so how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise the interest rate on its deposits in order to prevent the excessive rise in bank lending ? what if that interest rate had to be 4 % or 6 % , or even 8 % ? adequately high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer to the fed to some combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the scope of private-sector lending . that , by almost any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how this would work in practice .
they tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the u.s. and china , found itself at risk of crisis . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting the latest crisis than they are at preventing another one another . policymakers in nanjing have promised to tackle this problem at their hands . they have called for the process to ensure that once the warning lights flashed yellow , a country in question would be compelled to right its policies . the nature of financial risk constantly shifts in ways that are hard to foresee using hindu indicators like those devised by the g-20 .
first , he dare not appear “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs to attempt guantánamo detainees in rigged settings , or even hold them out in perpetually : lawyers ’ claim that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and military that obama could be held scores , if not hundreds , of inmates whose body is crime scenes . according to wikileaks , a attorney with the center for constitutional rights who represents some detainees , the obama administration can not take any risk of calling on torture crimes , thereby calling them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in a court of law . why should obama , a constitutional scholar , be backtracking on this way ? moreover , obama has taken pains to suppress hundreds of photographs depicting sexual assault in us-run prisons to do nothing to roll back the patriot act .
when the authorities – specifically , the us federal reserve and the fdic – determine that things are impossible , they have the legal power to force banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . but current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without triggering another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the type of global panic that culminated in the days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . specifically , there is the theory of mine , which has thought about the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy emphasize that it simply does not work , according to the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or us citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . “ panic ” as a result , hoenig says , “ it ’s a panic ; ” and people and nations and nations generally protect themselves , and their wealth from others . moreover , there are no international laws of bankruptcy to govern such matters and avoid grabbing assets .
paris – a central paradox of french politics was confirmed once again on march 27 . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation was a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party just 40 years ago . yet le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine . and , with that to change , the front ’s fortunes can change . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( the way she calls conseiller général ) , the far-right national front gained some 11 % of the popular votes cast but secured just 0.1 % of seats .
the global fund has brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should have left donor countries proud . the united states was the largest global fund , but many others were doing their part . for example , australia has now provided $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 ; a sum that enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment ; 80,000 people to receive tb treatment ; seven million are being curable from malaria ; and 14 million bed nets should be delivered to families in need . with technical support like these , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable , sustainable domestic health-care system , to be fully financed with domestic resources by 2019 . the global fund has brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia , a heroic achievement that should push donor countries to proud .
new york – everyone , from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers , can get a lesson from the world ’s largest charitable foundation about effective development spending . prior to his electoral victory , us president donald trump ’s railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries that hate us , ” ” ” ” ” ” reflecting the widespread belief that aid needs moderation . and those lessons are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus exclusively on domestic issues , and that let recipient countries cope just as best they can ( aids opposition is even higher in france , poland , italy , slovakia , portugal , and greece ) . the united states allocates less than 1 % of its federal aid budget , but an average american believes that this figure is thirty-one-on-times larger . recently , the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday paper launched a petition calling for the cessation of ring-fenced aid spending ( worth about 0.7 % of national income ) .
but the former have fallen prey to a prolonged american occupation , and the second currently faces a us-led oil-export embargo designed to throttle it financially . second , further isolation of iran will make it very difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america hastening its military disengagement there and seeking to cut an agreement with the taliban . as a result , america ’s effort to give the international effect to its new iran sanction act constitutes a double-whammy for india . first , it is threatening to sabotage india ’s energy-diversification strategy by forcing it to become overly reliant on islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar , which managed to drive a ride out the arab spring . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and it must rely on iran for its access .
that guarantee could be incorporated into a resolution dividing the reform package . a key obstacle to that proposal is the us congressional authorization requirement to increase america ’s quota share . this opens the possibility that american voting power could fall temporarily below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require the backing of more than 85 % of imf members ’ votes . to secure american backing , the us board of governors could commit not to consider any draft resolution requiring 85 % backing , without america ’s approval . it would remain valid as long as the us could manage to increase its quota sharply and renew its voting share .
yet , nearly six months into northern african upheavals , the number of arrivals on the south italian island of lampedusa has risen roughly 30,000 . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted an equal number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . the problem for italian officials , as for other concerned governments , is the eu ’s pressure on right-wing populist parties that no longer need a defensive response . italian officials have privately acknowledged that current figures are not ungovernable . the case for openness , inclusiveness , and diversity in european societies has become much more difficult to achieve .
germany ’s state recorded budget deficits of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , according to a recent oecd projections , soar to just 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state budget will therefore amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp and , an equal oecd forecast implies 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely the same economic stimulus as germany , 4.4 % of gdp . while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and exposes great structural problems , it also implies that the state reacts extraordinarily counter-cyclically cyclically and stabilizes the economy , which benefits the entire world . moreover , germany has far more intrinsic stability than america ’s , owing to its lack of problems of heavily indebted households , which are now confined to their borrowing .
in the private sector , the bric index funding proliferated , even though goldman sachs radically hedged its own “ bric ” bet by imposing a second term , the “ next 9/11 , ” or n-suntech , for the debate . that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , as every member announced its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . but catchy belief die hard , and russia has moved to cement the brics ’ current conception of the brics into an irreversible reality . ossifying the brics into a de facto global institution move forward dramatically in june when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia of course ) for the first such bric summit . a few months earlier , the four committed to issuing a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april observe their collective determination to alter the rules of the global economic system .
reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his ability to dole out his cowboy cruelty by movie-star , though luck also played a role . after all , the victory of the cold war aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose efforts to reform the soviet union fueled its implosion . with his well-rehearsed sunny disposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a brand of decidedly hollywood flair . his strategic defense initiative – intended to end the nuclear-deterrence strategy that was known as “ mutual assured destruction ” – was , after all , nicknamed the “ star wars . ” advocating supply-side economics to the whites working class , reagan convinced millions that “ less government , ” ” ” ” meant cutting federal programs , including education , would raise the “ morning post in america .
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , riots and death recently viewed in xinjiang might have taken place in russia . rather than hearing a crackdown in the urumqi , xinjiang ’s ’s ’s capital , we might be read about the hundreds killed at the streets of almaty , with columnists forming comparisons to the bloody crushing of ukrainian independence demonstrations in lvov ’s wake earlier this year . experts would remind us that kazakhstan has never been a country , and that ukraine claims its independence are historically at least questionable . substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you get the pictures . as with china today , some feeble international condemnation would have obtained it , with some speculation on possible links between kazakh militants and exile groups , or islamic fundamentalists .
and chinese policymakers have made it abundantly clear how unhappy they would be with negative-sum decisions . the answer is obvious : china mounted a full-court credit system to make a difference on minds . renminbi-denominated government bonds in london were issued , with plans that were established to create new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . in august , the currency ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s exchange-rate regime was loosened slightly . so , why was the imf flip ?
but foreign import barriers and exports are not the reason for america ’s trade deficit . the overall trade deficit stems from the saving and investment decisions by american households and firms . the real reason for this is the fact that americans are spending more than they produce . the policies of foreign governments affect only how that deficit is divided among america ’s trading partners . the reason that americans ’ saving and investment decisions drive a total trade deficit is straightforward : when a country saves more of aggregate output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has an extra supply to sell to the rest of the world .
judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no impact study was conducted . yet , rather than acknowledging the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that he has created , modi has been discussing going even further , moving india toward an entirely “ cashless society . ” many of modi ’s supporters argue that its problems are the result of inept implementation . but the truth is that his design was fundamentally flawed . there was no “ no skeleton ” policy , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence that alternative policy options were considered .
washington , dc – terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state ( isis ) has targeted tourists – orchestrating attacks on the museum and beach . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram , notorious for its abduction of 276 school girls by march 2014 , has inflicted thousands of casualties on suicide bombings and assaults on civilians . in kenya , the somali group , al-shabaab , launched two high-profile attacks , on nairobi ’s westgate shopping mall in 2013 , and on garissa university in 2015 , as well as many smaller acts of terror . and , in mali soon after the attacks in paris , gunmen belonging to an al qaeda affiliate stormed the radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 people .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes that they have produced . indeed , with the royals ’ ratio of commonality now at only one-1,000 ( compared to only one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge to steering princely privileges , salaries , and job demand has never been more acute . royal perks include lifetime sinecures and civil-service domination , enabling princes to prize contracts and receive commissions from the top of their salaries . so the saudi regime is broken ; its legitimacy is questioned , and sectarian tensions grow . as the elder generation dies , a new generation has fallen prey to fighting before customers .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s creditors to blunt question : “ must we starve our children in order to compensate for our debts ? ” but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia . over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian drive has lifted somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory has destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion has been mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , health , and clean water provision . that came in 1986 , before public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unnoticed debt burden .
whether a correction in risky assets is temporary , or a bear market will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will actually exit from qe as fast as it signaled . there is a strong likelihood that weaker us growth , together with lower inflation , will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of some form of liquidity support . brazil and other countries that have complained about “ hot-money inflows ” and “ currency wars , ” ” ” ” ” have now suddenly gotten what they wanted : the likely premature end of the fed ’s massive qe exit . the consequences , sharp capital-flow reversals that now strike all risky emerging-market assets , have not been quite pretty .
berkeley – since late 2014 , we have been advocating a model for american governance on the basis of the tenth amendment , which states that “ powers are not delegated to the united states through a constitution , nor prohibited by it to the states , are reserved for the states respectively respectively , or for the people . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american governance .
europe is slipping back into recession just when recoveries in the united states finally win some traction . europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction . i moderated a meeting on the “ new context ” in east asia , ” ” ” ” ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , japan , and japan . and yet i seized a different conclusion from that of davos . with the possible exception of a japanese participant , all presided over the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s ’s .
we are fueling dangerous shifts in the earth ’s ’s climate and ocean chemistry , to give rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that will damage food supplies and the planet ’s quality of life . brilliant scientific mindsets have been learned over the last many decades to “ read ” earth ’s history to understand how a climate system works . both the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message . they have deployed brilliant patterns of physics , biology , and instrumentation ( for example , satellites reading in-depth features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is clear : large-scale use of coal , coal , and gas threatens the planetary biology and chemistry .
some commentators have started to point to america and europe ’s different views on the role of international law , as opposed to the use of force , in dispute settlement . others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival center of power , but unrealistic this seems to have been the case . because europeans are militarily insignificant , they argue , it is perhaps not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy rather than military might to settle disputes . by contrast , no one should be surprised that americans chafe at constraints on their capacity to assume american military hegemony . some integration advocates view a united europe as a powerful partner .
even before the georgian crisis , russia had already seen the need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and their roles . we suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security guarantees , in order to ensure the level of pan-european security . moscow – the crisis in georgia last august tested europe ’s ’s security system , and the system failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe must revisit its current security arrangements , capitalized on what happened , and accept that analysis in reforming those arrangements . indeed , even before the georgian crisis , russia had already seen the need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions , and the roles they function .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be brought together with violence ? that question has exploded in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a rally to protest a scheduled removal from the public park of robert e. lee , the leader of a confederate army during the civil war . a woman , heather heyer , was killed and 19 people injured when james fields , a white nationalist , drove his high rate in a mob of counter-protesters . a counterprotest was organized , and street-fighting broke .
chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly use of keypad polling devices and handheld computers to determine how the city should spend a typical $ 6 million public-works budget . and wen has indicated that village elections could be expanded to reach the next top level of government , the township administrations , over the years . the zeguo exercise was deemed tremendously successful , and was replicated elsewhere in china . china ’s modest experiments with a local election were supplemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” these are taking the form , in addition to the internet , of high-tech city hall meetings .
already , european regulators have introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with records of illegal fishing , penalized europeanist operators , and helped support the “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fisheries laws . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated technology for seafood traceability , data , and intelligence gatherings that help pinpoint exactly where seafood come from , and when , and that was captured . such an effort – which is , a electronic documentation scheme for the atlantic bluefin tuna catches – represent one of the most effective tools for eliminating illicit fishing . the eu , japan , and the us would become even more effective at dictating their policies to preventing criminals from accessing their markets , enabling legitimate actors to benefit from some “ supercharged ” level of access . eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life and secure the food and livelihoods of billions of people .
yet the urban poor , faced with bad housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood diseases , hiv/aids , tuberculosis , and mental disturbance . they are also likely hit hardest by natural disasters like the floods and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense poverty concentrations of poverty help create a fragile environment that spawn civilian disorders , resulting in death and injuries . but a recent panel of oxford university concludes that emerging-market cities can improve and sustain urban health , by capturing the intrinsic strengths of concentration , coordinating health and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from educational opportunities created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity .
this was followed by a court of decision in june 2001 to set a date for trial , making the evidence on these individuals possible at last . the crimes of the courts represent guatemala 's first effort to bring high military officials to justice . regrettably , the trials endured indefinitely because the defendants ' lawyers appealed the case . our successes with the law of myrna tiso are notable , but achieving them proved difficult : courts investigator murdered ; judges were threatened ; judges have been attacked ; and witness have fled into exile . i have been harassed and campaigns to discredit me organized .
that certainly did n’t happen at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 and reinforced the eu last month with its report on climate and land . some major economies – including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , and poland – as well as regions and cities have now formally recognized the scale of the crisis . the issue is whether that will translate into a commitment to take the action needed . proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we are facing a climate emergency that demands for radical and urgent action .
finally , there is macron ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s attempt to reset relations with russia perfectly close to tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . mediating between a variety of systems and looking beyond the present incarnation of other countries was , at the end , charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . meanwhile , germany , a european power with its closest historical and cultural ties with russia , is on the brink of a political cycle . it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel ; but it no longer has the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world or to rally europeans on her own . with the uk and germany currently unable to play a significant diplomatic role , and italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors on any basis , the conclusion is fairly simple : partly by default , and partly owing to the sheer energy and imagination of its young president , this is france ’s moment .
john maynard keynes ’ writing of the rules along harry dexter white has viewed capital controls not as transitory , but as a permanent feature of the global economy . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s , owing to an inability or unwillingness , and it was not fully understood by which – leading governments in charge of managing the rising tide of capital inflows . the third path identified by the trilemma begins with doing away with national sovereignty altogether . they understood that a democratic country would need some space for the pursuit of independent monetary and fiscal policies . thus , they contemplated only a “ lean ” globalization , with capital flows restricted largely to long-term lending and borrowing .
over time , enhanced attribution forensics can augment the role of punishment ; and , with improved defenses through encryption or machine learning can enhance the role of preventive and denial . furthermore , because states and organizations are moving toward understanding the better constraints and uncertainties arising from cyberattacks , and the increasing importance of internet entanglement to pursue their economic well-being , cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare may change . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to maintain , at least in the end . because technological innovations are faster than in the nuclear realm , cyberwarfare tends to be characterized by heightened , not open source of fear of surprise . but if this makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to verify , there may still be scope for limits on certain kinds of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) and to negotiate rough rules of a road that reduces conflict .
likewise , a decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto a deal proposed by un secretary general anders fogh rasmussen . in georgia , by contrast , russia moved from promoting its territorial integrity in order to crush the country in three weeks , relying entirely on the military strength of doing so . the georgian conflict was followed by a steep decline in investor confidence . now russia must ask itself the relationship between short-term military victories and long-run economic prosperity . even then , the us agreed on another four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that none was left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise .
the democracies that have built that order embody values are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . the fracturing of the west holds a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and lose faith in a postwar rules-based international order . more broadly , such a strategy could also start to close down the deepening transatlantic divide opened by trump ’s us presidency . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates once again that europeans relies far too heavily on america for its security and prosperity .
modern international diplomacy tends to be more and more reliant on groups to make rules , set standards , and collect from technical data . knowledge-based organizations shape a broad range of alliances with media , and play an important role in influencing public opinion in the same way as in diplomacy . at the same time , knowledge-based institutions are better equipped to capitalize on their expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . in the environment , emerging new institutions emerge that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly for use in programs that certify sustainable resource utilization , as concerning forests and fisheries . numerous international negotiations over issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit from such alliances .
likewise , was the strong showing by populist parties in this month ’s election in italy , where the anti-immigration league party and the anti-establishment five star movement jointly secured some 50 % of the vote . but it took more than five months for parties to agree , with the largest opposition party now the far-right alternative for germany . even germany has , to some extent , fallen prey to populist forces . to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) – has emerged . in a country that seemed inoculated against populism in its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development .
most important , the government appears backtracking on a commitment to allow for a binding referendum on opening to the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly split on the issue , and no one will invest the additional cent on mexican oil or gas production if a recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 as opposition claims will happen . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea . likewise , restraint and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements that are sought by a country ’s framers ’s framers ’s political and electoral reform . reelection is permitted only by a candidate nominated by the same party for which they originally ran , and by permitting legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remain unclear .
regardless of the formulation that takes place , it began to receive some hard blows just a few years ago ( analogous to crises that hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . but that escape clause turned out to be insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( meaning , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy remained too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by the upsurge in inflation . perhaps the largest setback in september 2008 , when it became clear that central banks , relying on it , received insufficient attention from asset-price bubbles . central bankers telling themselves that they were giving asset markets all the attention they deserved by specifying that prices for housing and equity prices could be heeded for the same way that they implied misinformation about goods . that a boom-and-bust cycle could emerge without inflation should not have come as a surprise .
but , even for full-time employees , firms may choose to pay a relatively small fine , rather than provide insurance . that fine is $ 2,000 per worker , far less than the recent average $ 16,000 premium for employer-provided family policies . employers can evade the mandated mandate by lowering the employee ’s workweek to below 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time work ) . rather than incur the cost of an approved policy premium , a smart employer can pay a fine for not providing insurance , and increasing employee compensation by enough to hold more spendable cash out after purchasing subsidized insurance policies . not providing insurance and making a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its employees have the incomes that entitle them to government subsidies ( which are now available to anyone whose incomes are below four times the poverty level ) .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned across the affair , robin cook , and clare brief , want their own revenge and thus go on to invade blair for his “ falsehoods . ” but does the uncertainty now circling blair like the vulture now stoning the staid appetizingly amazers ? or is it any more question of the new minister losing the trust of his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ? indeed , he went on a counteroffensive , notably toward the bbc , which did not explicitly endorse the war with enthusiasm . so far , blair has proved his resilience to such charges .
increasingly obsessed with the prospects of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america over the last few years has contributed to a general erosion of the united nations human-rights watch system . on the protocol of anti-torture , the american people sought to derail the creation of a universal system of visits to sites of detention , under an optional protocol to the convention against torture . yet , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july to the un ’s economic and social council . here america has found itself allied with some bizarre bedfellows that routinely quikes as chronic human righ-making violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , or zimbabwe . it has adamantly opposed a number of important , promising new human-rights initiatives , including notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and a new anti-torture mechanism .
what needs to be said for is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as a leader in europe . just as britain once led europe in the struggle against fascism , promoting its democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be inside europe leading from that front ranks . france , which had always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility , should be ready once again to take the lead in a progressive movement , spearheading action to fight climate change , resisting protectionism , and promoting sustainable growth . it must take the lead in mobilizing europe in trying to make the global economy work for people , protecting them from unfairness and inequity . nor will it be enough to recall the historic merits of engagement and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery over europe .
when a company sells you a car that , say , fails to test adequately , resulting in injury , the company pays a price . the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing company , from airlines to foods suppliers . when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not just “ passive consumers , ” given the corporate traffics in their data . a restaurant can not evade responsibility for serving terminally expired food simply by posting a sign said , “ customers beware , ” at the time . yet the expectation of reasonable consumer protection comes into our economies .
the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who come and go ; in practice , a sizeable fraction of economic migrants from the poorer parts of europe stay in their destination country , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . so , what is to be done now ? they may be given “ humanitarian protection ” ” ” ” ” ” or have been accorded “ discretionary leave , in order to remain ” for the short term ; but , then , they may be deported as illegal migrants do . the us asylum system has been totally unprepared to cope with a new generation of refugees ineligible under the current framework precisely because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution but from the disintegrating regions of their states . temporary residence status , in both europe or beyond , would be sensible if a rapid return to normalcy to refugees ’ homelands were a realistic prospect .
as a result , few people have noted how genuinely , powerfully , her agenda was , how well she thought out , and how audaciously she sought to administer it . in other words , ms. obama manages to establish herself , unprecedentedly , unprecedentedly , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” she has meticulously studied not just the jackie of kennedy – a comparison apparent from her sheath dresses and page-boy haircut , but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous but understealth stealth , princess diana . princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography , which has opened the way for far-reaching societal change is grossly underappreciated . in her own brief lifetime , she has been often lauded for his qualities ( her beautiful and style ) that are secondary to her life ’s work , derided in another aspect of her character ( her emotionality and the chaotic personal lifestyle ) that collided much like the point .
the eu is preoccupied by both are preoccupied by yet another round of stimulus involving even greater political and policy risks . yet other risks are already giving the likes of central bankers ever more headaches . the protracted brexit process is strengthening the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-term impact on global growth of governments ’ carbon-weaponization of trade tariffs complicates the task both for the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some kind of pro-growth policies nowadays could , if not well designed , raise the risk of disruptive financial instability and thus further complicating central bankers ’ task . the idea of a “ people ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s qe ” qe may , that is , a more direct channel of central-bank financing to populists – gets more attention from both sides of the political spectrum .
clearly , ak zhol has used the accusations of impropriety as a weapon against within the country ’s government . he himself has presided over many violations of the violations , a fact remarked by the osce back in 1999 . indeed , many opposition groups have engaged in dirty tricks . he resigned in no uncertain terms after winning the election to a parliamentary vote last june . the election , however , represented significant progress .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
indeed , its combined gdp has grown from a low of $ 95 trillion in 1970 to just $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its ability to convene meetings attended by all over the world ’s great powers , from the united states and europe to china and russia . as a result , asean continues to face significant challenges . yet asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . over the short term , it appears to be moving somewhat like a crab , two steps forward , one step backward , and a single step sideways .
under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists have based their research not on any physical structure of physical thought and behavior , but on the premise of rationality . much of modern economic and financial theory is based on the assumption that humans are rational , and thus that they systematically maximize individual happiness or , as what economists call “ economists , ” their “ utility . ” as a result , glimcher is deeply skeptical of affecting economic theory , in his view , to find a physical basis in brains . the people ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s goals are simply revealed by observing their economic activity . when samuelson adopted the subject in his 1947 book the subject , he did not look in the brain , but instead relied on “ revealed preference . ”
central-bank balance sheets have expanded ; policy rates have reached their “ near zero bound ” lower bounds . and growth remains tepid and fragile , with many predicting chronic , sluggish growth , with some even fearing another global recession . but policymakers have one more possibility : a shift to a “ purer ’s ” fiscal policies , in which they directly finance government spending by printing money , is a so-called “ helicopter drop ” ” ” . a lot of cheap water appears to be happening ; but a horse refuses to drink . a new money would circumvent the financial and corporate sectors , going straight to the thirstiest horse : middle – and lower-income consumers .
over the coming months , newspapers and television networks ran with the story of how it imitating the national obsession . the case went to a local court , where a judge ruled that it was “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and awarded the driver a two-year suspended sentence . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he was going on her own because her husband was related to senior provincial officials . it quickly became the “ rich versus poor ” story , widely cited as the example of high-level corruption . alarmed by public reaction , harbin magistrate ordered a case reopened , just to have the suspended phrase confirmed when the case was concluded this march .
repeated military interventions in large muslim nations , as well as in egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey , have hampered orderly political development . a large majority of large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age in a mid - to top twenties . but these countries ’ rising middle classes have started to shift their political systems in another direction , as a testament to the power they are now wield . that power has risen , for several reasons , most importantly , demographic . with more than half of these countries ’ populations below age 30 , political developments there have enabled them to move forward , despite entrenched elites ’ own recalcitrance .
so the objective is to implement a comprehensive package of fiscal responsibility laws that curb legislatures ’ ability and ministers to boost spending relentlessly . rules need to impose limits on deficits , more spending , and debt , and require transparency so that the public knows what to do . though latin america ’s economies now do well through reform and high commodity prices , underlying problems are emerging . third , on the panel ’s list , increased investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance . if matched by a genuine commitment to designing fiscal credibility , countries could boost their economic growth substantially .
this has given rise to a number of disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable impact on scale . a new report by pathways to prosperity committee on technology and inclusive development , based at the university of oxford ’s blavatnik school of government , indicates how countries can address this problem . the report urges them to establish a foundation of “ digital building building blocks ” – including the use of basic infrastructure and capacities to channel positive disruptions to public education and health services . second , countries need to focus on building underlying the digital infrastructure needed for sustained success to avoid the allure of gleaming innovations . all too often , developing countries have seized on new technologies – “ distribute tablets to schoolchildren ! ”
but , overall , there is a difficult time to deny that the global economy lacks any momentum . in part , this is because trees can not continue to grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to get 10 % a year or more . and it is partly because growth is not imperiled by strong growth potential ; on the contrary , many others , however rich , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . and , partly because growth is not unconditionally desirable : citizens may be better off with slightly fewer jobs and more clean air . so , something else must be holding back growth .
in april 2009 , and again in april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped in bangkok ’s streets to demand a new election , but were dispersed – with a 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , red-shirts have surged in number , demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , over two years , pad yellow shirts have also returned to the streets to display disillusion with abhisit . pad ringleaders are now denouncing all politicians as corrupt , and extol the virtue of the monarchy . exploit the guns of the anti-corruption drive and surging nationalism ( the fruit of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , royalist-conservative movements implicitly point to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
in any technological transition , those leading the change can not lose sight of the human element ; some things are even the smartest machines can never do . industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades to come . in fact , some estimates show that companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and corporate advantages will go far beyond saving as automation will spur innovation , improve forecasting operations , and lead to improved customer service delivery . gartner , a research-and-advisory firm , estimates that ai will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , whereas pwc forecasts that ai could contribute just as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 .
as is so often the case , it is not what you do n’t know , but what you think you know that hurts you . because they can not make a good deal of things , they need to concentrate on what they are best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . they should make few things very well and exchange it for other goods that are relatively better elsewhere , thereby exploiting the gains earned from trade . but , while some of the ideas being intuitive or obvious , they can also be wrong and dangerous . and the idea that cities and countries actually do unique , and that is what you should specialize , is among those very wrong and dangerous ideas .
this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until after her election next year . she can continue to do no more than the minimum that keeps the euro . europe would be infinitely better off if germany makes its definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . trouble is that germany was not obliged to choose . the situation is worsening , and , in the longer term , is bound to become unsustainable .
after five years of international sanctions imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seeming welcome reprieve . but in front of putin places too much faith on xi ’s part , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet dissident celebration in the east , “ people are brethren ; i will hug the chinese , ” who mocked ill-fated early attempts at the “ russo-chinese union ” last june . still , the bilateral relationship has lately deepened considerably , exemplified in last week ’s forum to produce more than 25 trade and other agreements covering districts ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders will balk at the fact that their two countries are on better terms today than ever before . for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly tempting .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as european council president will end on november 30 , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . following his targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could drive additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after a parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its current presidential election in april 2020 , and opposition voters already view tusk as the only viable candidate .
so you can set a high price to compensate for inconvenience and make money on a side . and , if you want it to pay , rezz.it can help you collect without feeling a cheapskate . you do n’t particularly want to lend to them on a daily basis ; but when somebody is prepared to pay in , say , $ 200 to rent them in a dinner party , the trouble might be worthwhile . and you can post different prices on a variety of occasions : $ 20,000 to rent a house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 any other time . or you can have a bundle of under-used dining room chairs .
following high-level negotiations between chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer earlier this month , outstanding problems are to be agreed in beijing in early november . fifth , the two sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as their last chance to sign an agreement . to get the deal done before thanksgiving will be critical to undergird us business and consumer confidence following the christmas season . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump could throw wrench on this process . i am one of the few commentators who have argued all year that , despite the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make the deal more likely rather than the deal .
european institutions , like germany , tend not to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” ” while france favors the conception of “ european sovereignty . ” but both concepts often apply interchangeably . we understand strategic autonomy as our capacity to set one ’s own priorities , and to force one ’s own choices on foreign policy and security issues , in conjunction with the eu ’s own institutional , political , and material means of realizing those choices , either in cooperation with third parties or alone , if needed . we have also analyzed likely obstacles , hardship , and conflicts should germany and european policymakers decide to pursue that goal . in seeking to clarify affairs , my colleagues and i recently proposed operationalizing a vision of “ europe ’s strategic autonomy . ”
in fact , eradicating poppy crops not only harms local communities , and undermines the international community ’s objectives ; it is also failing : the opium production of last year was at an all-time high . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it destroys a single crop to grow in the south ’s harsh climate ; and , by serving as the main source of revenue to millions of people . thus , a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that engages directly with communities that currently suffer the most in terms of providing support to deeply impoverished rural populations . as a way to tackle this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run scientific pilot projects to research afghanistan ’s opium licensing scheme , a key component of afghanistan ’s process of economic renovation . in september , the united nations office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation had skyrocketed by more than 60 % .
the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that a clash of civilizations that was predicated on ten years ago , and that needs to be avoided . but the bush administration scares in the rest of the world . its muslim faith counts one billion men , as well as women all over the world , among its followers . ninety-five percent of muslims , including most of their religious leaders , want only to live peacefully , imposing an end to the long humiliation of islam , which only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can actually make possible . moreover , five percent of them have declared a war on our civilization , and are prepared to go into murder to lay an end to western domination .
likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s actions as incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting the bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debt . but blindly rending to principle would have been the ecb ’s high-risk options . it would have meant accepting in 2012 , what used to be so-called “ redenomination risk ” ( euro-newspeak ) , economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . but , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has , in any case , committed germany ( and the other northern european ) taxpayers without the approval of their parliaments , a potential obligation to bail out – well , whom it , too , ? indeed , it appears that the typical northern european german taxpayer is backing a typical stakeholder in the northern european banks , which are over-exposed to southern european debtors .
this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , again playing into the hands of isis recruiters . trump has also expressed an interest in cooperating with russia to take down isis , a seemingly unoblivious to the fact that russia ’s involvement in syria is focused on thwarting assad ’s regime . by equating the struggle against isis with the soviet union ’s struggle to counter the soviet union , trump has elevates the terrorist organization to great-power status at great power . iran is now lending russia ’s long-range bombers to use one of its own air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-difficult effort to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin on ending the civil war . such a partnership could lead trump to strike a deal with iran that is more than willing to engage sunni radicals in iraq and syria .
indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only europeans ’ aspirations for a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( especially in health care and education ) , but also that they stand ready to accept the tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protections , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said they would favor change in the status quo , even if it required some sacrifice . as it stands , europe ’s economic output per capita remains well below the 2008 level . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the eu threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) set by the stability and growth pact . and , in urgent need of change , the status quo is what would be needed .
colombo , sri lanka – sri lanka has deservedly praised for the progress it made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . now , all of the developing world ’s developing countries face myriad challenges , but that is especially the case for a country that suffered an acute , thirty years of civil war . with an average annual rate of 6.7 % , the economy has grown by an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and education and health statistics are impressive . underlying wars , like fighting with the tamil tigers , typically social and economic grievances like real or perceived discrimination , as well as government failures to address wealth and income disparities adequately . what will require is a government setting priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach .
the western democracies , most historians now acknowledge , have played a comparatively minor role in the great military struggle . very few people at the vatican , indeed in europe at large , have had any real insights in these days of a huge industrial might on the united nations . but any condemnations of pius levels of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as a promoter of hitler ’s war efforts . and denouncing nazism might have been mistaken as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . the pope believed that he could either condemn , or condemn , both totalitarian powers .
by its nature , the data are relatively easy to overdraft physical constraints . conversely , should the equivalent of even one closed-off appears anywhere , the resulting losses extend back into the network as a whole . data travel instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries . i believe that the economic and social implications of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles that petroleum and the home combustion engine played in the twentieth century . networked , its effects , and advantages are multiplying , and then multiply , further .
meanwhile , severe trade reform failed to start until the 1991-93 . in both countries , governments focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . because both india and china used to increase trade substantially , both are viewed as globalizers by the world bank ’s criterion . yet , as their experience reveals -- along with the experiences of many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam , deep trade liberalization can hardly ever be a factor in fostering higher growth and expanding trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catch-up on this simple reality .
as a result , i felt a prodigious , restless energy that i suspected that he was not able to turn off if he wanted to reject my observations soon after my decision began to recount my observations , took me to a roadmap for vietnam , and asked me to locate the areas of annihilation . i did , i said , but that it was acting in longhand in . he suggested that i was producing typed copy and provided me with the office of the general staff . he seemed deeply engaged , but made no comment , questioned me only if i had something in writing at the time . my sense was that the request was an ordeal – one that i was prepared to take , as i conducted my maps with me in a forward air-control planes .
in west africa , private companies like ignitia expand the accuracy and accuracy of sms weather alerts their livestock . in egypt , for example , sudan , sudan , and ethiopia , locally scaled up services are delivering real-time weather data for vegetable farmers through sms . currently , such kinds of innovations are not prominently featured in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is slowly changing how , as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , apps designed to collect and share agricultural information become more accessible . in mongolia , rural herders like ignitia expand the accuracy and accuracy of sms weather alerts to remote rural farmers .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , not to escape yet another clarion call to reverse the retreat of globalization . faltering trade , it is assumed , must be a malign trend . but the assumption is simplistic , at best , at best . to be sure , an effort has held up to grasp the current slowdowns . the problem lies in a missed understanding of what drove trade growth over the past few decades .
finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluations became the norm for the world ’s major exporters , first by the us , then japan , and now europe . if china joins this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and global financial markets would be subject to yet another source of severe instability . just as china has resisted the temptation of a currency depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 – a determination that may have played its pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it must stay the course this time around . that is all the more important in a disorderly climate of qe , where , in the late 1990s , china ’s role as an anchor of currency may take on an even larger importance .
and even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would begin from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and debt levels . prolonging the present expansion will require keeping great care at bay . for their part , america needs a well-targeted approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers , particularly in the us congress , need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market accidents , while doing more to promote growth . policymakers and business leaders and business leaders also need to be more sensitive about how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; better protections for fragile segments of society should be created , and stronger automatic stabilizers .
for many years , the imf engaged its member countries in a process known as “ surveillance , ” ” ” in which it screens , analysis , and consults every country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these regular checkups help to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . nonetheless , the globalized economy ’s increasingly complex policy challenges demand fresh scrutiny . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make it more politically and efficient . this is one of the most important reforms to fund ’s work in the 30 years that the surveillance process was designed .
this requires four measures to achieve it . first , a debt conference is required , with southern european governments ’ creditors and banks forgiving a portion of the greek debt . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with the communal financial assistance required for a longer period because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness . the creditors ’ relinquishing a portion of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now largely replaced the private lenders . second , the eurozone ’s members , whose path to regain competitiveness through price and wage cuts , are far too long and grueling , and whose societies risk being rent anticipatory through a necessary imposition of austerity , must temporarily exit the monetary union .
this matters , because ukraine has fulfilled only partly imf agreements that it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . finally , the eu should insist that ukraine halt all politically motivated criminal cases , freeing those who are incarcerated for political crimes . steps toward this direction would vastly improve ukraine ’s government of relations with the eu and america . these three steps would not resolve all of the difficulty in managing ukraine ’s relations with the eu . a selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputation .
but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and the desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and again in 1986 , when he , under mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan , met in reykjavík . for many members of the american security establishment , putin ’s evident influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war . putin has simply reciprocated with an invitation to trump to come to the kremlin . instead , trump seems merely to be having more kowtowing to one another ’s leaders . arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia are in america ’s national interest , trump seems to have invited putin to visit the white house in the near future .
washington , dc – earlier this month , europeans will head to the polls to elect the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent some 507 million . to be sure , the european parliamentary election produced fewer seats on the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . given the perceived remoteness of europe ’s parliament and widespread frustration with europe ’s bureaucracy , the level of involvement and a movement toward supranational politics is remarkable . nonetheless , the rate of participation over the past decade is comparable to average turnout in the american congressional vote . how the election campaign unfolded marks a small but significant step in the emergence of the first supranational political space in europe – a truly global one .
nevertheless , the bomb was not encased on metal , and terrorist attacks were the only people killed . indeed , that policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . to an “ outsider ” , the episode looks like a colossal security setbacks , as when the fbi ’s chief personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at the garden party . yet it is precisely this highly personalized form of politics , which the saudi royals have adopted with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . highly personalized politics form part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s ’s theatre of a state that keeps the royals firmly in power .
prime minister levi eshkol was said to have spoken seven languages , everything in yiddish . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he had to leave the government during the yom kippur war in 1974 . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in crude and tumble of israeli politics . perhaps eban was too urbane , as well as too numerous a scholar and gentleman to make it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to the greasy pole . of eban , it could be said that he talked about ten languages , with all with an oxford/cambridge accent .
but whether europe as a whole avoids a lost decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance , depends on whether southern europe ’s governments can rapidly restore their competitiveness . at the same time , northern europeans adopted wage and productivity levels that made them seem more comfortable than one europeans for every euro that it earned . the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive when it came to its first destination was driven by market price signals – by incentives that were created for entrepreneurs and how entrepreneurs ’ personalized responses played out in a macroeconomic environment . northern europeans with money to invest were mostly willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the us south who wanted to spend ; and ample pre2007 expenditure made employers willing and able to raise wages fast . as a result , southern europe had adopted an economic configuration where its wages , its price , and productivity levels had made no sense only so long as it spent € 13 for every € 12 it earned , with northern europe funding from the missing euro .
a worldwide downturn is the last thing that the world needs now at a time when it is already beset by risks , including a potential no-deal brexit and populist gains in may ’s european parliament elections . though the us maintains military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , it has been steadily drawn in china , leading bipartisan support in the us for a more confrontational approach . of course , while trump will not spare his allies out , his primary target remains china . after all , us-american competition and china extends far beyond trade . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and even military aggression .
they can be answered and periodically revised , if only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms . competitions among states and localities to attract big employers with fiscal and other grants work particularly badly . a common theme , which emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies – for example , regionally targeted employment and infrastructure investment – is the heavily contingent nature of success . few policies work off the shelf and reliably across diverse settings . recent high-level deals for foxconn and amazon , by wisconsin and new york respectively , have exploded .
shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing following a decade of spectacular expansion . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than is likely if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . china , for its part , has an advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . naysayers abound , but never mind them , either . if china performs a durable , comprehensive pro-consumption efforts , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of the financial crisis , and complete its transition to an consumption-driven , high-income economy with a significant and affluent middle class .
london – as governments across western europe begun to retreat from banks and their depositors , east europeans were watching nervously uncertain about what a global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm was hitting , europe ’s fragile bonds of european solidarity are being tested . two countries – hungary and ukraine – have already demanded major support packages . several more could have done so over the next month if frozen credit markets do not thaw . if the eu continues until late last year that can not be ruled out , germany could experience severe banking crises .
but the big issue for health professionals is whether surely the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods – notably , sugar – are just as addictive as cocaine and heroin . the processed food industry claims that “ you need the sugar to live . ” but the big issue facing health professionals is whether using quantity or quality of foods is to blame . for example , sugar is consistently an ingredient with the highest score on yale ’s food-addiction scale , which measures people ’s eating cravings .
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative launched nearly two billion doses of polio vaccine to 575 million children across 94 countries . every detail , from bicycle groups and boats needed to deliver a vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , to refrigerators and cold-storage stores needed to keep the vaccine sound , even the batteries needed to power it were counted and budgeted . globally , the international commission on donors and un agencies have been working closely with national governments to help national governments track accurately the need for massive polio immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children . in each country , partner institutions including the health minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , and non-governmental organizations , jointly and carefully planned each immunization campaign . a proactive coordinated effort by amongst both private and public-sector partners to deliver oral polio vaccine to every child under five was the key to success .
with the bloc supersplintering in distinct political tribes , it becomes easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . this has long been russia ’s strategy , and both it and china are now adopting it , too . still , one wonders if the eu has the capacity to align itself with a united front . in 2016 , for example , southern and eastern eu member states that rely on chinese investment have managed to water down a joint eu statement focused on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea . in an increasingly deal-led world , the new g6 could offer to defend a rules-based system .
evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and improving both economic efficiency and governance . the harvard political scientists devesh kapur suggest why this does not happen . at the same time , corruption has been one of africa ’s endemic problems . but the headwinds of globalization were intended to blow away cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . indeed , it is the key issue in nigeria ’s approach to presidential elections , owing to president obasanjo ’s heavy-handed but unsuccessful struggles to curb it .
florence – europeans , eager to revive the continent ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s unification process more than ever , have lately turned their attention back to the establishment of the united states . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and that of europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . many , nonetheless , are rejecting america ’s precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those that it has encountered before . still , others who accept that federalist principles may well be well suited to address europe ’s common market ’s problems , despair that the “ european people ” might draw from this new political architecture are missing . in fact , the creation of an american constitution and birth to the american people offer reason to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be resolved .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow are having no doubt spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . yet , rather than hold a dialogue with the people , putin has been demonstrating that he is in control , even preening the photo of photos in an entrenched leather outline with his favorite motorcycle . moscow protests , the largest in many years , must be kept putin down by night , lest they be dissipated by such unabated brutality . following his targeted killings of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
by 651 , nearly all of the major urban centers in persia were under arab control , adding momentum to the process . the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to the khorasan frontier province of khorasan , and central to persia ’s borders began , with persians taking arab thames , and converted to islam . mass conversion to islam among persians was a first step toward establishing the first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslims . at different times , caliphates extended in asia , africa , and parts of europe . seeking to dominate or reestablish a caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
in 2010 , according to trevinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : as the prices of oil that had plummeted to $ 40 per barrel in 2011 , and recovered and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel levels , russia will revert to the stagnation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . sure enough , gdp growth between 2010 and 2012 , though averaging a respectable 4 % , turned out to have been driven from the post-crisis recovery and the soaring oil prices to $ 100/barrel levels . now all of these short-term factors have been depleted , and a brezhnev-like period of stagnation is beginning to bite . the russian government ’s reluctance to tackle corruption and strengthen ukraine ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse , yet stable , political equilibrium . russia ’s political elite understands that its economy is capable of achieving 5-6 % annual growth .
left-wing proponents of so-called “ modern monetary theory ” argue that larger persistent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during the economic slack has been implemented , because there is no risk of runaway inflation . to be sure , following this logic , in the uk , the labour party has proposed a “ people of qe , ” ” whereby the central bank would print money to fund outright fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley turner , a former chairman of the uk house of financial services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his bodge-trained colleagues , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal facilities ” that would enable the central bank to fund large fiscal deficits when a deep recession hits . notwithstanding the changing terminology , all such propositions variants of the same thinking : large fiscal deficits that monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand when the next slump occurs
most of the developing world , i know , spend too little money devising good projects . when the private sector does , transforming ideas into surreptitious projects is often extremely difficult , because many of the difficult-to-coordinate public-sector choices or actions involve one another . bidders need a plan across two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) , as well as a longer stage of surgery when revenue is gathered to recover the costs and anticipate returns . there are plenty of uncertainties on both phases , but particularly during epc , which may last for a 3-7 years , depending on the project . so , suppose that a toll project is being approved , concession contracts are ready , and companies offer it .
but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change ; nor can we ignore the guidance set by local governments and the private sector in acting where national governments do not . nonetheless , to get and keep all governments on board , a low-carbon transition needs to be inclusive . besides , there is a clear business-as-usual rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and ratings agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potentially “ stranded assets ; ” such as large-scale oil and gas projects , which will become outdated as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter lives than was previously anticipated , with financial portfolios relying heavily on such assets increasingly at risk of devaluation . with some governments abandoning past commitments to emissions reductions , one might think that the global effort to address climate change is losing steam .
to defend “ family values ” , whatever this means . a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a fudge fighting for old values such as tribute and virtue . more recently , a group of members of parliament ( quite a big , quite large ) left the majority post-solidarity party and formed a new “ polish family ” party party with the slogan pressed for the ruling coalition in “ brussels . ” in practice , this movements are motivated little more than a fear of change . but here people , as part of a former “ solidarity ” movement – for them a community movement rather than individual , a movement for public rather than private freedom – form the new euro-antagonists bloc .
an alternate hypothesis , which seems to fit a fact , recently emerged from paul woolley center for study dysfunctionality in capital markets at the london school of economics . the researchers there argue that , in fragile speculative industries ( and finance certainly has been in that category in recent years ) , it is hard for investors to track those that are managing their money . managers may require higher returns in their upturn , with higher returns . they may see short-term returns , but they miss out on very well how those returns are generated . that may be part of the story , but competition for home talent and customers appears to be intense among investment banks and others ; but they collectively have been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of such customers .
new york – among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , the united states ranks consistently among the top ten countries worldwide , including through the insead ’s global innovation index . yet , on the world peace index , it ranks 88th out of 153 countries . conversely , bhutan is among the top 20 of the world ’s top 20 most peaceful nations , while not even making it onto innovation indices . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severe enough to produce a comprehensive legal breakdown and order profoundly impedes creativity and innovation . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank respectively , respectively , fifth , and sixth on an innovation index , but just 28th and fourth-tier on the peace index .
had the council succeeds weber and his populist backers , macron would have claimed it as a success . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager , who are not from the epp , but who nonetheless the liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , who are from the epp , but is not a spitzenkandidat . finally , the election provides a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown more powerful . but merkel still defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders are reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general , following kofi annan ’s ten-year tenure . annan has inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but the wars in iraq have divided the world , drawing attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and critical longer-term issues such as climate change , control of disease , sustainable energy , and access to water . recent attempts at leverage in these countries through threats and sanctions , and at times of war , have failed . with recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia with ’s global clout , the opportunity is to turn the world ’s attention to the most critical challenges facing our planet . beyond the longstanding challenges of poverty , the environment , nuclear proliferation , and the un reform agenda , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and others .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all in us trade policy during the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression . many complain that something similar , if less spectacular in scope , is taking place today . an outfit called the global trade alert ( fta ) report at the us has given rise to alarm bells about what it calls “ a protectionist juggernaut . ” the icricta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 with china as its most commonplace destination . a number of investigations have been widely quoted in the us financial press coverage .
host countries might assume the responsibility for administering benefits like unemployment insurance and sick pay and pensions . and eu countries of origin could continue to provide benefits that are not related to jobs , such as child allowances staying at home and services for migrants too old or ill to work when they arrive . as long as people enter a country in order to get higher pay , the pie available for distribution gets larger ; but when it comes to social benefits , the pie gets smaller . given this , why not have such a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the cost of migrants ’ social benefits ? such a change would develop a win-win situation , as it reduces the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and giving british grounds to rethink their exit decisions with their heads held high .
what needs to be done has a long history of clarity . it has become commonplace in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union ; and that solidarity-based solution to the existing debt levels and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not be saved . the prize for the ’s survival of the european project , and thus of the european project , gives more community as well : banking union , fiscal union , and political union . those who oppose this because they fear common accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and a loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s ’s re-nationalization , and hence its exit from the world stage . no alternative – and certainly not the statusquo – will work .
so , the result of months of debate might be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has been done exceptionally well . the eu is not deprived of tools , owing to so-called “ structural funds ” to finance investment in poorer regions , but has no strategy for using them . more bugs will need to be hard , including new fixes . to investors , the reform process might seem impossibly long and hesitant .
other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying sweden ’s education . its schools are funded by local communities , and operate within the framework of a national curriculum that is designed by parliament and government . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as a kind of homogeneous mass , where every student can train on an equally pedagogical approach . but for individual children , schools must be capable of fulfilling needs and abilities in ways that turn learning a stimulating adventure . though educational opportunities and structures have become more diversified , a major shortcoming of most european educational systems remains : students have far too few choices , and teachers , with the desire to remain in the occupations , must adhere to the country ’s increasingly compartmentalized pedagogy .
from that moment , they are in and out of a prison system with little chance of ever regaining the legal work that enables them to escape poverty . their children grow without parents at home , without hope and support . what is insane about this is the resources america has missed an obvious point and has missed it for 40 years or more . infants of drug users often become drug users themselves ; they , too , frequently end up in prison or suffering violence or early death . to break the deadly cycle of extreme poverty , the country needs investment in its children ’s future , not in the incarceration of 2.3 million people a year , many for the non-violent crimes that are symptoms of poverty .
the non-residential construction boom that spawned helped not only to absorb the labor force that had been left in rural areas , but also to achieve a remarkable reduction in inequality . a comparison between the two approaches is clear . within this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not become a major problem , owing to a reasonably open-ended immigration policy that enabled the country to capitalize on the talents that colombia , among other countries , had not been able to hold . colombia ’s policymakers were hoping that if they had enacted best-practice laws and regulations , somebody would have come to expect . and when they do not , they can still bask in international accolades that they are receiving from foreign actors .
at the global level , over-leveraged countries – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend less , consume less and imports . but over-saving countries – brazil , china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending cuts by deleveraging countries . the us is , at best , facing a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments begin to feed through to consumption and investment . as a result , the us recovery in global aggregate demand will remain weak , pushing weak global growth far lower . moreover , there is now massive tightening of the public sector in the advanced economies , with massive budget deficits and public-debt accumulation , driven by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the enormous cost of socializing the financial system in ’s ’s ’s ’s pockets .
so far , a major part of the problem has been countries ' unwillingness to cooperate . previous demands for tougher regulations came amid nothing , owing to opposition from the financial sector . for the present crisis , the fall of wall street , in turn , is to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was with communism . today , the international community is charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar disaster in the future . ironically , the global dimension of this crisis has a positive side as well .
after all , when state ostentatiously begets sides in this talk , it can not avoid denigrating the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens . in the advocating disestabliset of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i am not eager to trivialize the importance of their continuing contest over the meaning of life . it is because of the ever-present importance of this great debate that the state should strive to be revenue-neutral . just as much can be neutral about such issues , the liberal state should abandon it to individual citizens to determine if it should give its own financial backing to the church of rome or someone at bayreuth . contrary to the militant liberalism of france , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to avoid either side in the ongoing culture war from the use of state-seeking powers of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for human souls .
new york – twenty years after the berlin wall ’s fall and the meltdown of communism , the world faces another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . an ex ante multilateral system represented by the united states has begun to break down , and the latter , represented by china , is on the rise . following the path of least resistance , the international financial system will lead to a gradual disintegration . while international cooperation on regulatory reform is difficult to achieve on piecemeal basis , it can be unaffordable in a grand bargain that rearranges the entire financial order . at the same time , a new , fact-based multilateral system must be invented .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is often in the spotlight , usually on popular acclaim . over the years , he has championed important victories that limit state aid to business , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the advantages derived from his accomplishments are at risk , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . with a case of competition against the software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , eu commissioner monti will need to rediscover his footing sharply . within a few weeks , the european court of justice ( to whom private parties can appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions rejecting the proposed corporate sector mergers .
droughts and hunger storm calamities that , with adequate planning and a sufficient supply level , can become deeper and fade away . but time and again humanitarian assistance in africa has come up short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980s , and in ethiopia during the 1980s . that is why many of the proud and dignified people have been stripped of their livelihoods , and forced to rely on one miniscule food annually or nothing at all . then , as now , food insecurity was predicted long before the first hunger pangs could be sensed . worse still , these tragedies were avoidable ; after all , we recognized that these crises were approaching .
the bottom chessboard include the transnational relations that cross borders beyond governments ’ control , everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to supranational terrorism . here the american needs the aid of europeans , and it makes no sense to call this a world uni-polar , either . on this chessboard , power is distributed chaotically among non-state actors . no government can check outcomes without working together on others ’ cooperation . on this bottom chessboard , it also matters a degree of introspective civilian cooperation that affects a country ’s aspirations or soft power .
translation : a orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banks at or near their current levels to fall further in value , it is not clear that our political leaders will be unable to tolerate their failure . it is this form of government that supports the large implicit subsidy of the big banks . and it is because these big financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” they are able to borrow more cheaply than they otherwise would be . making matters worse , they have both the motive and the chance to grow even larger .
the dutch group urgenda , and almost 900 co-plaintiffs have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt tougher climate policies . as it stands , fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressure . indeed , typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a complaint at the country ’s un human rights commission , calling for an inquiry into big fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility to cause climate change . fortunately , the world will not need to wait for moral suasion to perform this day . and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil fuels , it would contribute to an eventual phase-out of a sector out of a climate-safe world .
a few years ago , for example , chipmaker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system that links its three factories and its subcontractors in asia to its global customer network . it chose to out-source this operation to federal express , which uses a sophisticated on-line system to manage global deliveries and sales . as a result , national semiconductor has seen its delivery cycle to customers reduced from four weeks to just one week , with distribution costs cut from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of sales . * telecommunications liberalization , including the entry of new private service providers , is critical to lowering costs and spreading the benefits . it is necessary for several steps to encourage a massive increase in internet use in these other locations :
as a result , the option of so-called “ helicopter money ” has become increasingly debated . but the debate about it is riddled with confusions . it is often argued that monetizing fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keep interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to generate excessive inflation . if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money – nominal demand undoubtedly will rise , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes even among the same people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people fear a future “ inflation tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers proclaimed bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became clear who owes what to whom , unable to service its debts and who would go next . the result was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicky , and firms went under , not only in the united states but throughout the world . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” imposed on a low , business-cycle volatility from the 1980s to the next great depression . in hindsight , complacency in the run-up to the crisis was plainly false . and yet , in its aftermath , little has changed .
should the spd , which votes to a coalition agreement in early december , block the new government ’s formation ( an unlikely development , but not a completely outside issue ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit . coalition partners disagree about the need to sort this out . for some , this is a cause for ambivalence . so far , they have agreed that in little more than a year a commission will provide different possibilities and models for protecting the german parliament on human rights , while providing assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . aside from some minor particulars , consensus prevails .
indeed , every new gm crop variety must satisfy rigorous health , ecological , and efficacy standards . badly needed biosafety laws in both nigeria and uganda have already been sidetracked . likewise , the world health organization confirmed that “ none of human health effects has been shown due to any consumption binge . ” much of the trouble lies with a small set of opposing gm activists , who object to technology on “ moral substance . ” they typically argue that gm crops are becoming unsafe , a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades .
that solution will , nonetheless , be incomplete because not all derivatives traders are over-regulated financial institutions , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent either contract and requirement . if coverage is incomplete , one can expect the regulated to complain that they were being placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators ’ call to cuba for voluntary action wo n’t amount to much if it is just a request by the derivatives industry to act against its own financial interests . regulators may well need to turn to the bankruptcy laws to fix this problem . perhaps regulators will find that they have to require that the desired contracts are regulated .
but even that was inadequate to britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition law in england . the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person used “ words , signs , ” or visible representation … to excite disaffection against the government , could be charged with sedition , and potentially sentenced to life imprisonment . in other words , no amount of free speech for indians , according to this view , did not take place . sedition law was thus explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; in fact , mahatma gandhi was among his prominent victims , albeit far , among his last . the british had concluded , in the words of britain ’s lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ a sedition law that suited a people ruled by an essentially hostile nationality and faith government may be inadequate , or , in some respects , unsuited for a country under foreign rule . ”
seoul – china – already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer and international-asset holder , is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( as measured by purchasing power parity ) this year . it is now using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . after decades of actively participating in the international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the imf , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to establish a new world order . last month , as china and 20 other asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank . indeed , the country ’s days of following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone .
new free-trade agreements give european economies access to major markets worldwide . these are , on all reasonable standards , a remarkable uk-led successes . achieving a global agreement on climate action promises not only to protect the eu , but also to cement europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s role as sustainability leader . indeed , progress on the single market has helped to nurture a boost to competitiveness . and enlargement has boosted europe ’s security substantially .
a special report on semiconductors , essential to american national security and economic competitiveness , for president barack ’s obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s council of advisers on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answers . a report written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) proposed that america should work with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its wto obligations , and strengthen export controls and inward investment restrictions . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent security roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , with some already tightened security on the flow of semiconductor ip to china , and on acquiring semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the pcast ’s report recommends that america adopts similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits , according to china ’s behavior . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand america ’s jurisdiction over foreign investment committee ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions of domestic companies by foreign entities ) to a broader range of investments – including chinese venture capital and private-equity investment in american startups – is consistent with this recommendation .
our livelihoods , not to mention those from future generations , should not be sustained hostage to our ongoing addiction to fossil fuels . a rocky mountain institute for reinventing fire analysis shows that such solutions are possible , offering a market-driven strategy for the powering american economy , which is 158 % larger in 2050 without reliance on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependency to more efficient renewable-energy systems . four decades ago , countries endured not just the immediate economic impact of opec ’s embargoes ; they leveraged the resulting oil shortages ’ potential to spur innovation . swift , and resolute action to turn buildings into more energy-efficient , design automobiles that require little or no use of fossil fuels , and increase the proportion of renewable energy in electricity supply could ensure that a substantially hotter , less enjoyable world of 2050 that the ipcc warns does not materialize .
on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . luckily , two missed the target , and israel managed to intercept the third . the capture of uranium was not starving ; indeed , international inspectors removed every sensitive material from iraq in the aftermath of the gulf war of 1991 ( which was why it was absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but what an international response , if any , would have been launched had it been extremely cost-effective ? but the episode represented a severe escalation into hostilities , and it served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in warzones .
though the us dollar ’s appreciation took some downward pressure on non-us economies , which depend on exports or foreign capital , it heightened the risk of an open currency war . at the same time , not all of the indicators so far are gloomy . labor markets remain largely sound , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany and household consumption remain strong in most major economies . furthermore , the 9/11 surge in oil prices , which raised fears of another negative growth shock , has since pulled off . america ’s economy is echoing this dichotomies .
( others became “ business ” leaders , but only steve jobs became someone , and admired by a thousand – including the romanian waiter on a british airways theater where i am now sitting . ) in the personal-computing firm that moved from apple ii to a sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) , steve jobs was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . he inspired widespread public enthusiasm for the quality of his products , and for his personal charisma . i first met steve jobs back in 1979 , or at the 1980s , at ben rosen ’s personal computer forum in ben rosen . for some reason , it was held at a playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – america ’s annual real gdp growth rate , at 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year , is a impressive one , as it was the 3 % average growth rate in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . what accounts for the recent acceleration ? from the end of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – the american economy has grown at an average annual rate of just 2.1 % , on average . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
in closed-list systems , a quota of 50 % on a quota should be adopted at the same time . in closed-list systems , the candidate lists should be zippered : males , female , female , female ( or vice versa ) . but if those countries are replacing their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of elected women should , in all likelihood , remain equal , rise to about 10 % . one can not predict with some precision the impact of the raised quota percentages on open-list systems that currently have an efficient quota law . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in about 20 % jump to about 20 % of women elected ) in systems that do not have effective quota legislation .
and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump attempted to block a us investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . trump systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . frustrated , for example , by denying him all of the means he wanted for his phantasmagorical wall along mexico ’s border , he has simply plucked money out of funds allocated by the us congress to the defense department . likewise , he flouted the constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments , money or personal benefits of foreign governments that do business , sometimes extravagant shares , at his assorted hotels and golf clubs – and found other ways to monetize the us presidency . furthermore , trump has tried to steer government-in-government contracts toward favored companies or away from those he dislikes – such as amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also holds the washington post .
when the debt becomes unsustainable , there are several possible negotiating outcomes . in 2001 , argentina defaulted on its sovereign debt . sometimes creditors agree to swap old bonds for new ones that have either an undervalued face value or a cut in interest payments . few governments , of course , refuse to pay at all . sometimes debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps over-scheduled over the longer term , thus giving debtors time to get back on their payments .
while ring prophylaxis might work on minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , parts of the world where flu pandemics begin , the likelihood of success approaches zero . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is highly cost-effective . ” but a cost-effective strategy can be “ cost-effective , however . ” a response in turkey – where as many as 50 potential cases have appeared in eastern ukraine – is instructive . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china , where a pandemic strain will most likely originate , expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvements in human history , and with it the emergence of a large and growing middle class . indeed , it remains the global supply chain ’s vital assembly for a number of manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , that is enabling lower prices for the world ’s consumers . moreover , with china accounting for roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , much of it in dollar terms , but also in other major currencies , owing to its large trade surpluses in recent decades . that has made china a crucial trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , besides placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . it helps to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its beneficiaries have large fiscal deficits that fall short of domestic saving ) .
history offers little guidance , as it would for whether warring countries would avoid damaging nuclear sites . with the notable exception of the 1990 ’s balkan conflicts , wars fought not against or within countries with nuclear reactors . even ukrainians born after 1986 understood what the chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by fighting might look like . for ukraine ’s government , the angst is real . in the balkan case , serbian military jets pit slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plant in an ominous gesture early in the conflict , whereas radical serbian nationalists have called for attacks to release radioactive content .
over the past two years , or so , saudi arabia has made starkly apparent that it will not easily surrender its market share – to anyone . to this end , it has maintained a price war , backed by a surge in production aimed at pulling out of its weaker competitors . in fact , china has taken full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom rates for russia ’s energy resources . it has pursued a campaign to reclaim its former position not only in transit but in petroleum products , from natural gas liquids and petrochemicals . as the door to asia became open , however , russian companies seized an opportunity to enter downstream markets in india and indonesia , two countries that are critical to the saudis ’ own strategy .
history suggests that it would be one of these entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities , and of exercising their initiative to try new things ) and innovative people ( to imagining new things , develop new concepts in business goods and methods , and marketing to potential ) . indeed , attaining , prospering and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . which type of economics would offer this kind of good life , in turn , would offer this kind of good life . this is the kind of economics that i hope that china will develop . participants in such a good economy would range from the grassroots of society to the most advantaged .
( while this may not be automation properly – the supermarket has just shifted some of it to customer shopping works . ) for those of us who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , ready answers are to train the people of better-paid jobs . for now , however , technological progress eats up better jobs , too . as a recent financial times article points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity increases , education , and health care , technology is already reducing demand for skilled labor . a wide variety of jobs that we are now thinking of as skilled , secure , and unducibly human may be another disaster for technological change .
in april , assassins gunned down a roma plant worker as it walked out to her job . in northeastern hungary , a roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary alone . in february , a roma father and his five-year-old son were killed outside their home country near budapest . in august , gunmen stormed the home of an impoverished roma widows , maria balogh , shot her dead and wounded her 13-year-old daughter . an expensive house was burned to the ground , and the child was prime minister .
the information revolution has changed the world in ways that tariffs alone can not reverse . with american workers already competing against robots at home , and against lower-wage us manufacturing workers abroad , disruptive imports will only create more job opportunities for robots . at the same time , trump should protect individual workers from individual jobs , not individual jobs . in fact , the information revolution has changed the world in ways that tariffs alone can not reverse . a more rational approach would accept twenty-first-century realities .
indeed , those elections would have been unthinkable , as they did in nazi germany . nonetheless , hitler ’s power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s robust power over iran . it very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but does it constitute a latter-day hitler , and is iran ’s equivalent today in the 1930s ? the results for iran ’s recent municipal election were humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran extremely well might .
but this requires a rich reservoir of thought rather than a unified approach . the second principle is the subsidiarity that holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are viewed alongside those of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . that means that , as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared liability will be a pipe dream . the final principle is congruity to ensure that decision-makers are accountable to outcomes .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on a extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected a political coalition of two major powers : the super-rich and evangelical christians . the super-rich had one over-riding on the aims of joining the bush coalition : tax cuts that benefited overwhelmingly the richest households . the bush team believed that they would eventually balance tax cuts for the rich with cuts in government spending ; but this was never explained by the public . evangelicals have been brought in the name of so-called “ family values , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activities – including direct payments to the religious groups to provide social services they locally and internationally . like these policies failing , global financial markets have become reacting negatively , adding to the insecurity of the global economy , and there is little relief in sight because america is entering a period of prolonged political infighting and a stalemate .
public investment in infrastructure ( like the massive expansion of europe ’s railroad network ) , together with the need for climate protection and the environment , will be needed . japan in the early 1990 ’s , waiting for too long to act , missed the right opportunity to engage in the countermeasures , which is the reason japan still has not recovered from its long period of stagnation . at the same time , some large eu countries are teetering on the brink of recession . in order to boost purchasing power and spur consumption , tax cuts on low – and medium-low-income households are indispensable . to be sure , eu member states should determine the concrete terms that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities , stemming from infrastructure demand in africa , will account for at least $ 150 trillion annually over the coming decade . africa ’s worth as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well positioned to play a pivotal role in renewable energy . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . remittances by households and firms , projected to reach $ 4 trillion by 2025 , reflect annual gdp growth of $ 5.6 trillion .
an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov has been passed over and since russia ’s role as russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing the environment and transportation . but ivanov is far taller than putin , who alone had previously attained the colonel ’s rank power . despite his own years in office , medvedev remains well known more for his fancy ties and a expensive watch than for his executive actions . earlier this month , putin was once again inaugurated , or , rather crowned in spectacular fashions , with medvedev once again assuming the role of pliant prime minister . a far more competent foreign placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general .
cambridge – government programs to support pensioners are at difficulty in any country , owing to rising life expectancy and a rising retirement ratio to taxpayers . the problem is uniquely unequal to the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” scheme for social-security financing creates a kind of crises when the fund is depleted . while the options on that time will be different from choices faced by other governments , the policies to avoid america ’s crisis are relevant to other countries facing population aging . the problem will worsen over the years , as adverse demographic trend increases the fiscal burden of financing pensions and health care . here ’s how the american system works : through legislation , a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to funding the retiree benefits .
he recently criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threat to usurp foreign assets for his failure in that regard : just as radicalism is incompatible with the commonsense required from someone who governs . one reason is that corruption scandals provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech , and for democracy in action . newspapers and television commentators have been relentless in reporting scandals , helping to turn brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system was sufficiently stable to withstand open criticism . lula remains popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows real sympathy with those of the more affluent , more affluent , and more so with foreign investors , because he has always tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic reality . indeed , while scandals shook the government down , lula was overwhelmingly reelected late last year , with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market .
the two organization of american states for electoral observation missions that he himself invited , and whose terms he accepted , then refused to certify that result . the bolivian military has , of course , arrested no one at all . the constitutional court that permitted morales ’s run judged legal succession ; timely elections are now promised ; and the army has not taken power . true , morales resigned when the military told him , and after agreeing to protesters on demands for a fresh popular vote . but the current constitutional provisions have been subsequently followed .
this is the sort of free democratic spirit that operates outside the convention that elections make decisions to govern a government . it is not always both consistent or rational , to be sure . it is fueled enormously by social media ( in itself the kind of revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it does move very quickly in precipitating the crisis . and they resent – to the point of mobilizing in the streets – any hint that a clique at the top is barring their trip .
countries were obliged to commit only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exemptions for socially sensitive industries ( in parts of agriculture , textiles , utilities , and services ) . this left them free to construct versions of national capitalism for as long as they conveyed a few straightforward international regulations . the current crisis demonstrates how far the us has come out of this model . financial globalization , in particular , has played havoc with the old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with few secure valves , it provided an explosive mix .
for a decade , both the us and saudi arabia have had a balance of asymmetries in which the us depended on them as a swing producer of us oil , and depended on us in ultimate military security . so , although america did not have other interests in the middle east , such as israel and the nuclear non-proliferation regime , the balance of energy imports and exports would be unlikely to be free america off its military expenditures – which some experts estimate run to $ 50 billion a year – to protect the region ’s oil routes . at the same time , there is a need to strengthen american ’s bargaining position in world politics . power arises from the asymmetry in terms of interdependence . you and i may depend on one another ; but if i depend less on you than you do on me , my bargaining power increases .
indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism are a major reason why the eu fails to retain broad-based public support . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions about whether “ hungarians ” and poles want precisely the same thing as germans and french remain so . at the national level , lacking political will , the legitimacy of referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands voting on an eu-ukraine association agreement last april and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , voters have said , “ no ” – outcomes that can be blamed , especially in the united kingdom , national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for their domestic problems . a lack of historical vision among the eu ’s current generation of political leadership is undermining the shared sense of purpose required to compel eu citizens to feel that they are a part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . back in the 1970 ’s , britain was where a preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . that model was based politically on creating consensus and economically on keynesian demand management . back then , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high levels of employment and substantial wage growth . nowadays , the equivalent of breakdown was the “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which a party that self-styled itself as the new labour is embraced by accepting a powerful role for markets , particularly for predominantly deregulated financial markets .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
other countries ’ own governments appear to have aspired to distance themselves from the problem , fearing a contagion from which they know most likely to spread . embassies have issued warnings by tourists and their citizens living in france ; tv news programs have shown hours of burning cars . mayors across europe have , on the other hand , responded more moderately , feel , and show solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . they know that their cities also remain vulnerable to urban violence , to the extent that they have pockets of social inequality , including the marginalized and excluded the young . as french cities burned down , other countries have found themselves extremely severe in judging france .
all else being equal , when china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the amount of a commodity consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be larger this year than it did last year . to be sure , the intensity of its use has been falling for some commodities like gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , like aluminum and coal , it has risen since 2000 , or , as was the case for copenhagen and oil , declines markedly or stalled at high levels . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is projected to grow at no more than 2 % annually in real terms . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain in order to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty – and thereby avert a crisis of legitimacy – places the floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . so long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a rate above global supply , prices will rise .
in the automobile sector , bankruptcy exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transportation services due to a shortage of spare parts . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy . severe shortages of life-saving medications in venezuela stem from a government shutdown of $ 3.5 billion in penalties for pharmaceutical imports . in the us earlier this year , he was diagnosed with cancer , and was forced to launch a social-media campaign to locate drugs that its treatment was demanded . wage arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a substantial gap in staple goods .
the “ middle east ” of the middle east will no longer remain a dormant giant . turkey , of course , is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not instantly challenge it . will it , too , have to make a bombshell , not take a bomb ? likewise , while egypt is situated at the center of a messy revolution and must given priority to internal change , it , too , is planning to regain a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s & d ) , and in the region , as a whole . beyond that , turkey , after all , is already a functioning democracy ; nevertheless , it is on the ground .
if “ constitutionalized ” they simply implant the notion that the constitution constitutes a statement of aspirations rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . the desire to restrict or protect some forms of human activity from the free market can be understandable , especially in countries like poland , where the free market remains an animal unknown . but , in a situation where many fields of social life -- such as education , health , and social services -- need fast and radical change , unleashing a free market to do its work offers the one plausible avenue for change . state-owned medical insurance companies , the state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not merely insecure and inefficient ; they also run counter to the idea of political reform . these state-controlled advantages have little to do with the justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but anything to do with rent-seekers and corruption .
an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago told me that the only publicly depicting portraits as large as those by outgoing then-president hafez al-assad was of the bollywood superstar amitabh baitabh bachchan . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother taking a bus to dakar every month to watch a bollywood movie – she did n’t understand hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles ; on the contrary , she can still catch the spirit of movies and understanding the story , with people like her looking on india with stars in their eyes like an outcome . indian arts , classical music , and dance have the same effect , and so does the rest of the country . so , too , does the work of indian fashions around the world now striding through global runways . the movies of bollywood that is bringing its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer the next example .
new delhi -- barack obama , a sixth american president to visit india since gaining independence , arrives at precisely the right moment , for both the united states and india . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening an clumsy national security and economy gap , a focus on his meetings with india ’s government . for india , questions about obama ’s agenda for visit are gigantic and complex ; and resolving options are exceedingly limited . those pertaining to security forces in afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous as they have ever been . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between american and chinese , but they are thorny , and the absence of resolution making them more intractable .
according to the un high commission for refugees , an additional 65 million refugees hovered last year , compared to only about 1.6 million in 1960 . moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have winner-take-all networks whereby hubs seize access to skills and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classes , industries , and regions struggling to compete . thanks to social media , the resulting discontent now extends more rapidly than ever before , leading to destructive politics . at the same time , a combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion as rising migration spreads political stress and vulnerability to other countries . this can invite geopolitical interference that rapidly continues to diverge into a lose-lose scenario , like what is already apparent in water-stressed , conflict-affected countries where governments are brittle or failing .
that constitution has marked a country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provides the governing framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , as it explicitly states , it is “ rooted in the indissoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” ” ” with sovereignty belonging to the spanish people . in short , spain is one nation , it is indivisible . many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to permit scotland to hold an independence referendum in 2014 . but such a process is illegal under the spanish constitution of 1978 .
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backward . since the 2008 financial crisis , we have wasted far too far too far too far in trying to return to days of rapid economic expansion . the flawed premise that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were just temporary has underpinned policies that have fueled only lackluster recoveries while failing to address key problems , like high unemployment and widening inequalities . the post-crisis era is now ending . it is high time to adopt a new framework of realistic solutions that foster shared prosperity within today ’s global economy and tomorrow ’s global economy .
these were highlighted in an “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released , over signatures of close to 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts globally , urging a policy shift toward doha . indeed , it is notable that , while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 , his resolution in june 2011 did n’t . obama ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round is the result of numerous factors and fallacies . american president barack obama is captive to a country by a labour party that buys the false narrative that deals with poor countries increase the ranks of america ’s poor by driving down its wages . here , obama confined his way to encouraging pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries .
some people are even predicting an double-dip recession ; if that happens , the chance of an actual american default would be far greater than it is today . indeed , diversification away from dollar assets is the day ’s advice . but this is no easy task , especially in the short term . if it does , the chance of an actual american default would be far greater than it is today . indeed , these new worries are raising alarm bells in china .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly searching for investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits to scale , in addition to market rates of return . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , went a step further : it will require all of their investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions , a bold move that could transform capital markets . berkeley – investors worldwide – are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring ecological and social benefits to scale , in addition to market rates of return . indeed , last year , one out of every $ 6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states – a total of $ 6.6 trillion – was allocated to some form of sustainable investment , particularly public equities . if this trend continues , with environmental or social advancement enhancing investment ’s value , it will strengthen a commitment to sustainable sustainability , which is already gaining traction among companies worldwide .
the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on the downside ; and a new set of powers is rising , bringing its own unique worldviews into global affairs . in some sense , this might seem like a good thing ; it is in fact a state of convenience . more varied perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . but , at the same time , this blinkered dynamic generates instability . in international politics , perceptions matter , too , sometimes more than the reality .
in britain and some european countries , animal-welfare activities have become politically salient , with pressure on parliamentary representatives mounted . in france , some of the supermarket chains have even ceased to transport eggs from battery hens . to its credit , the british egg industry accepted the situation , designing new , less harsh methods for keeping hens in check . the european union established a scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on agriculture , with the committee recommended banning battery cage , along with some additional forms of closed pigs confinement and calves . a eu ban on battery cages eventually was adopted in 1999 , but to ensure that producers had plenty of time to phase out enterprises in which they had invested , its implementation was delayed until january 1 , 2012 .
early school-leavers , for example , could be endowed with points for later use in professional training . this may sound utopian ; in a sense , it is . but , at a time when almost every digital service is becoming more and personalized , why should social policies remain confined to twentieth-century philosophy and solutions ? finally , with a presence of more of a type having an in-house , identical accounts could serve as vehicles for public policy . more broadly , instead of aiding people only when a social risk materialize , public policy could promote individuals throughout their work by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that treats peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes .
it used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was viewed as taboo . yet corruption poses the unified largest obstacle to growth and development in many countries , especially as it diverts resources from the desperately poor . indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many government minister , bank officer and ngo ’s had experienced blunt criticism , as did his effusive praise . the world bank insisted that corruption be viewed as cancer and that fight it was made synonymous with fighting against poverty .
china is not on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to advancing global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power concerning the global financial architecture that is seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . indeed , the modest measures put in place in response to a changing distribution of global power have , in fact , confined to the economic sphere , a hard core of international relations , to peace and security , the remaining exclusive preserve of even a handful of countries . but it is a status quo power with respect to the united nations system , and steadfastly opposes enlargement in the security council ’s permanent membership . the g-20 ’s formation , for example , was improvisation intended to defer genuine financial reform .
it can result in gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . rising inequality of outcomes need not drive down intergenerational mobility . and intergenerational mobility is the key indicator of the equality of opportunity . whether it does depends heavily on whether important instruments to support equality of opportunity , principally by education and health care , are universally accessible . the evidence supports the view that subgroups ’ systematic exclusion on any arbitrary basis ( such as ethnicity , ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly harmful in this respect .
the proliferation of information technology and social media means that they are easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap large pools of finance behind vast pools of finance – not to mention links and expertise – from small-scale investors . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms now exist , several specifically target clean-tech technologies . just last may , eureeca.com has taken the crowdfunding concept further than ever before , creating the initial truly global crowd-invested marketplace to offer equity in finance companies . other increasingly prominent trends – such as collaborative consumption , paygo models , and sharing and leasing models – could offer a similarly powerful impetus to such efforts . when used wisely , such platforms could pick up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the kinds of entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy .
in the ensuing conflict , as refugees poured across borders into neighboring india into overcrowded camps , creating conditions that are inevitably set back by the outbreaks of cholera . fighting broke out in 1971 when bangladesh , then known by east pakistan , proclaimed independence from pakistan . standard of care at that time was impoverished , and dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be widely administered . moreover , bangladesh knows that wartime cholera is all too well , and its victims can not be cut off from it . as many people lay dying , a pioneering physician named dilip service mahalanabis went a risk in dire situations .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 – international earth day marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , with 195 signatories now taking place . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the single most significant decennial in the global fight against climate change worldwide . in 2016 , a hottest year on record , average global temperatures stood at 0.9 º c over the twentieth-century average . the paris agreement ’s fundamental objective is to prevent average global temperatures from rising more than 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 . yet its first anniversary has become darkening of us president donald trump ’s energy policies .
even more succinctly , the us could not continue to have a crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole and for its future as a logical consequence of the modern concept of the world as controlled by any scientifically identifiable laws , formulated for god-knows – what is , a concept that calls for them no question , or sought , the deeper meaning of existence , and of all metaphysics ? the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the earliest atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history of humankind , and also of the first civilization that embraces the planet ) coincides deeply with each other , i believe , with a hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibility alongside crises of global responsibilities . but how to reestablish on the human mind a shared attitudes toward what lies above us if people all over the globe have a very different image of that which is above , when people everywhere feel the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? is there any sense in seeking to turn the human mind into the heavens , when such a turn would merely aggravate conflict on earth among the adherents of our different deities ? could humankind think only within what lies at its margin of what vision lies , and be incapable of remembering , which is why lies beyond , not but are the result of the loss of a more metaphysical certitude ’s loss , of god
at the heart of such a transformation is an energy transition that , though underway , lags or has stalled in many parts of the world . those are the choices that will drivethe transformation the world needs . he has thrown down the gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : tell us when you will phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and a shift in taxation away from pollution income . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and major end users is critical , as is extending affordable , reliable clean-energy services to everyone who is in need of them . important reform is also needed on how the transition is financed .
new haven – central bankers around the world have been unable to see the current financial crisis coming prior to their beginnings in 2007 . macro-prudential regulators ( a government that focuses not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on stabilizing the financial system as a whole ) are soaking required , with central bankers being the logical ground to fill that role . that is the conclusion , potentially counter-lake , that a group of squam lake lake [ win:////squamkegroup/] think tank of 15 academic economists to which i belong reached in our recently published paper fixing the financial system . and yet , while those central banks have been failing in the us before the crisis , they still should have played a leading role in preventing the next crisis . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that of a group of 47 central banks found to publicize the country ’s financial stability reports ( fsrs ) – that is , practically all of them – gave a “ positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system , ” in their best-known reports .
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end the daca , he also acknowledged the moral case for preserving it , saying that he would face a “ very tough , ” very tough ” choice . and , even after his repeal announcement , he proclaimed that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issues with heart and sympathy . ” the sad reality , in making that choice , that president bush chose to turn away from the classic american vision , engraved on the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem that starts , to “ give me your tired , your poor erasing , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers and had irremeasurably reinforced america . yet , evidently , daca beneficiaries took jobs away from their citizens , concludes that the same hearts and empathy are required “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ”
they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated efficiently and maximizing government revenues . attempting to fill these valuable tasks while paying the below-market wage is penny a wise but pound foolish . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors require adequate resources to win their difficult battles . amlo ’s decision to lower the payroll for public employees has already led many high-level civil servants to seek employment elsewhere . those eligible for early retirement accept it rather than just waiting for amlo ’s cuts .
and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise from 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 6.5-9.5 ºc ) above pre-industrial levels , far beyond the two levels that climate scientists identify as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups will need to set up in three major areas . a first coalition , comprising a class of committed governments , would seek to power down renewable-energy costs at least to the point that fossil-fuel power was 100 or so of a decade . moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs some help .
in a show of official solidarity , the lights also went out at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from an opera home in sydney to a great pyramid at giza ; not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york state building , london ’s big-ben , paris ’s eiffel tower , and skylines in chile and a las vegas serve . sao paulo ’s – as well-intentioned gestures – earth hour is hard to beat . at a stroke of 8:30 pa.m. on saturday , march 27 , almost one billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by switching off their lights for a hour . what ever could go wrong is that earth hour is decidedly one of successful publicity stunts ever dreaming . first organized in sydney , australia , a localized chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity ratings , and levels of involvement ( both an individual and official ) that generates up to exploded in recent years , to the point that a little barely a corner of the earth that the campaign failed .
but britain joined the european community , not only a free-trade area that cameron now apparently wants . in essence , the british were the eu ’s belief that a loose confederation of nation-states that cooperate on trade is as much european as europe ’s needs . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas embraced only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others did so . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-scepticism in british politics never diminished and became apparent in cameron ’s own speech . indeed , in his speech , cameron could not resist a passing shot at the european court of justice .
estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of the world ’s air-pollution-related deaths occur in low – to middle-income countries representing 82 % of the world ’s population . coal-fired power is also a major source of carbon dioxide , a major greenhouse gas responsible for the consequences of climate change – causing roughly 150,000 premature deaths annually and posing pervasive risks this century and beyond . to be sure , the coal-fired power industry has helped billions of people escape extreme poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned close to 700 % of per capita income growth since 1990 . but human health has come at greater risk in over-burning countries like food and burning more coal . research for the global economy and climate commission last year calculated that particulate matter alone were causing 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the developed world ’s top coal-consuming economy – in 2010 .
in politics , this may turn out to be dangerous , as it encourages basing decisions , regardless of how weighty , on whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails . true , democracy nowadays has embraced a pop culture of passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating group is conveniently forgotten tomorrow ; and more waiting is always in the wings . but in time , this desire seems overwhelming in the context of post-modern democracies everywhere . a call for more referenda , both of which reflect and fuels this trend . in fact , referenda are for the most part snapshots .
unless i know a person ’s name , perhaps i might not even know what a company does about it . perhaps she could just say “ “ “ “ president ” message for president barack obama ” if she shared an open letter , but otherwise she would have chosen to do so , too . the best subject lines tell what the message is about and signals an desired response : just “ an invitation to speak up in paris on july 14 . ” sadly , i get a lot of messages headlined up , and updates . or , an investment draft for your consideration ?
india ’s octogenarian , manmohan singh , has recently awakened to a desperate need for a renewed momentum . but it is far from obvious that sonia gandhi , the president of india ’s national congress , and the country ’s longtime politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda . and yet , changes currently afoot might simply turn things around . for their part , rajan is a superstar academic researcher , a brilliant political economy writer , and a former chief economist for the imf . at the time , economists worldwide took note in the advent of raghuram rajan as chief economist at the finance ministry .
we must abandon popper 's tacit assumption that political discourse aims to a better understanding of reality , and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . it is not identical to any scientific method , but they should be similar in their character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as criteria by which a set of political views are to be tried . the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a strong commitment to pursuit of truth also demands . we need to introduce new ground rules into the service of political discourse . rather than manipulate , it will be reality only if politicians cares about truth and punishes politicians as they catch them in deliber­tion .
explanations range from a anthropological next to a borderline racist : indians do not possess genes , construct , stamina , or develop a climate , for whatever . there are structural , infrastructural explanations : a lack of training equipment , gymnasiums , running footprints , and financing sources . we are a developing country , they say ; after all , an eye toward his or her , your legs against hers ; what is to be done against their trainer , their running shoe , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer ’s trebow . but those rationales will not do : the other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in the breast medals . why are indian athletes performing so badly ?
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project of a new american century ( bush ) sent a letter to vice president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the notion that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , despite absence of some conclusive evidence . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that , “ we are just not aware with any precision how much we know ” about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq . and , following his victory at the presidency in 2000 , bush proclaimed iraq one of his top two security priorities . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration covered ten of the bush administration ’s 25 signatories ’ founding statements , including dick cheney as vice president , and donald rumsfeld , as secretary of defense .
in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has changed drastically . a major difference between 2009 and 1979 has been shaped by the revolution itself . alzheimer ’s evolutions give birth to the new political class and iran ’s islamic revolution were no exception . iranian leadership formed after a revolution consisted of a narrow , ruling stratum , and far broader support group that gave way to governance and political mobilization . the clerical elite gradually lost power over military-security groups , from which president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the present for many years to come . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but we should not exaggerate the significance of the latter . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
research shows that many girls worldwide , and especially those in the global south , are simply not prepared for menarche ; education can help . finally , we need fact-based solutions . when programs develop in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . all too often , biased assumptions should guide policymaking . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often drop out of school because they lacked access to clean sanitary products . research shows that many girls worldwide , and particularly those in the global south , are simply not prepared for menarche ; education can help .
that lender can be monetary or fiscal ; in greece , both types are at odds . if greece ’s deal with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank would no longer accept greek bonds as collateral . under these conditions , anything would become all the more surprising if depositors were not rushing to withdraw their funds from greek banks . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . economists have long understood that in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , the banks are vulnerable to a self-reinforcing crises of confidence .
president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , as well as his cyberattacks against the us and others , however intended to make russia look great again , are merely aggravating the country ’s long-term prospects . in the brief period , however , declining countries often take on more risk and thus become more dangerous to witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . on the one hand , putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s ban on the use of force by states to usurp territories from their immediate neighbors is important . indeed , russia , almost completely dependent on revenue from its energy resources , is a “ one crop economy , ” with its corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . it has created the political dilemma of its own .
preventing the eu from falling further will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between greece ’s government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts any parties involved – and that most of europe . it can ultimately end only with a renewed bailout of greece or a european plunge into catastrophe . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as failed states and economics . greece needs both money and reform – fast and within the eurozone .
trump ’s presidency provides new opportunities for china to cement its role as an investment provider and all manner of infrastructure and assistance to a host of struggling countries seeking to develop . his unilateralist approach arguably seeks to compel america to play catch-up with the near-unhinged china left in its ongoing effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries view it as vital , economically , and politically , to its own strategic interests . and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic skill , over the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) , has put it an alternative hegemonic power , one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage , or moralizing on democracy and human rights . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries , brazil , russia , india , and south africa are all preparing to fill the vacuum , too . true , china ’s rise has provided a new orbit for many countries worldwide , with particularly in developing and emerging economies .
austin , living in a city , turns you into a cannibal . urbanization inures people to rural suffering and , like the townspeople ’s crowd together , their compassion capacity towards others ’ atrophies . this is at least the metaphor preferred by jean-jacques rousseau , who regarded cities as a pit in a place of human corruption . urbanites became the type of people prepared to sacrifice one another to appease their appetites : the cannibals . rousseau became so convinced by the malign effects of urbanization that he “ would rather see men grazing in a meadow grass than he was depreciating by each other in cities ” .
if apple ’s recent guidance points to a across-the-board , inexorable reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers be able to serve as the global economy ’s sole engine of the global economy over the next decade ? if it does not , could any other country fill that role , even partly ? the question at the beginning of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy unless this scenario plays out . looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , a 8 % annual gdp growth rate ( relative to the 10 % rate in previous decades ) and a gradual consumption boom to 50 % of gdp would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us dollar .
at least four “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , and three plague today , as well as china . first , with its bank-dominated financial system fully dominated , china ( along with europe and many major emerging economies ) suffers from maturity mismatches , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term lending . nor can policymakers afford to ignore a fourth misaligned distinction between ultra-low nominal interest rates and relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity capital ( roe ) , which has fueled speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality . yet , unlike many emerging-market economies , china does not struggle with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , making it a net lender of the rest of the world . but china has not avoided a third divergence , between debt and equity : its credit-to-gdp ratio has doubled in the past decade , from around 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed longer-term capital and equity markets .
events of the last 15 months – beginning with deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by violence in north africa and the tragedy in japan – confront the world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and the promise and advances of clean energy . reaffirming its commitment to the rapid decarbonization of its energy system , together with creative policies to support that goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of its most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory . europe has been a motor of energy modernization in recent decades . with a population of more than 20 gw of solar-generating capacity by 2020 , india ’s investment could grow rapidly . in the years ahead , such leadership will require assistance to capture the economy , the environment , and the security advantages of renewables .
human ingenuity seems to know no bounds when it comes to dreaming of protectionist barriers . human ingenuity , for instance , often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as ground up arguments for localized content requirements , infant industries , intellectual-property protections , climate policies , dispute settlement , or human rights . in october 1982 , a french government demanded that all japanese gays will enter the country through poitiers , a city hundreds of miles from nearest sizeable shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until the city of april 1983 . even absent from tariffs and quotas , trade can be impeded by subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping laws , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . indeed , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually bolster their chances of being reelected by making their wilder and more impossible promises – and , by doing more economic damage . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc , to defeat populism requires a coming grips to a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer result from a government losing power .
two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter-century : a powerful incentive to use debt to prop up demand ; and a shift toward financing of public debt through market-based private institutions , under the guise of combating inflation . since then , the financial sector has made every effort to design instruments that protect against price fluctuations , turn private debt into tradable financial securities , and gain access to speculative markets . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp . but these efforts were conducive to fraud and delinquency , thereby spurring a surge in new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , in asia in 1997 , and in russia in 1998 – as well as in recession in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . these trends have boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system , with the liquidity created by private banking activities excluded from transactions in the real economy .
in australia , new south wales ’s state cut off approval times by 11 % in just one year . and chile ’s national public investment system evaluates all of the proposed public projects that use standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . there is massive scope to accelerate approvals and land acquisition , structures contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and improve partnerships with contractors . similarly , the un has established a cost-review program that has identified more than 40 major prioritization projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then has created a cabinet subcommittee to ensure more rapid project delivery , curbing infrastructure spending by more than 15 % . the additional saving opportunities , in order to tune $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and employees ) , biology , space flight , and a lot more , and contain representations – such as graphs , timelines , and the tables – of how they are interconnected . they have complex relationships to others , and by representing that information using verbs – for example , “ a company that google acquired ” ” vs. “ the company that google competes with ” ” the rest of the world more accurately . an early success will be possible . most things do not exist in isolation , either . and that means a better , more meaningful response at a time when we search for it .
so far , the european union is considering legislation to compel corporate boards to keep a certain share of women in positions – up to 60 % . that proposed mandate came out of frustration , with the result of it . last year , european commission vice president viviane reding issued a call to voluntary action . reinstatement invited corporations to sign on the gender balance goals of as much as 40 % of female board membership . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit with its own “ subversion ” list .
cambridge – at the beginning of my classes every fall , i tease my students with the following question : are it better to be poor in a rich country , or to the rich part of a very poor country ? that question typically invites a considerable , inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured , limited version of the question for which there is a definitive answer . following its targeted killings of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
she saved , because she wanted a lot of money that she needed to retire . given the appalling returns on savings since 2007 , the prospect that she would continue low interest rates might force her to put still more money aside . alternatively , a low interest rate might push her ( or her pension fund ) to buy risky , long-maturity bonds . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might thus set it on a crash when interest rates finally rise . indeed , america may well be in the process of adding up the retirement crisis to an unemployment problem .
after all , the smooth transitions of power are not to be taken for granted . what made zambia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s election so important is that the challenger had won . indeed , it has defeated an incumbent , who truly wanted to maintain the job , and who might reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the outcome . to be sure , the zambians ’ achievement can not compete with an intervention in libya or the arab spring drama . and yet , what has occurred in zambia is related to those developments , and thus relevant everywhere .
russia ’s ’s diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria . its use of hard power has won the civil war over president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , demonstrating how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military power , witness the total destruction of aleppo , can be a game-changer . but , since it became mired in localized rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey , and the kurds , as well as israel and iran . as it stands , syria is russia ’s sole client state in the middle east . while a policy of neutrality has given russia a chance to keep open a dialogue with the various sides , it will do nothing to forge a new regional order .
investor enthusiasm and domestic political honeymoon lasted for as long as the international environment remained benign . but , once inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step in once again , closing the external financing gap with an astounding $ 50 billion of loan guarantees ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . with external debt trimmed by rescheduling , the foreign capital flight flowed again . but , once again , the external financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian electorate soon began to bristle at reform demanded by the imf . today , investors were ready to purchase even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional effects , as mgi has discussed . helicopter money proponents , for their part , pegging their citizens with central-bank money , or crediting national treasuries to fund infrastructure and other demand-generating activity – rightly argue that it has the advantage of placing money directly at the mercy of those who will spend it . indeed , encouraging demand might give central banks an opening they need to shift interest rates back toward historical norms . that could take the air of incipient assets bubbles , which could emerge and ease pressures on institutional investors struggling to find returns that they need to meet their insurance and pension obligations . an appropriately crafted <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured way , headed off the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap .
that followed two visits that he had made to haiti over the last 18 months , and a donor ’s ’s conference he sponsored , in april that sought to raise an additional $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban took an active role in the gaza crisis . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to the warfare , demanding that israel reopen gaza ’s borders on relief aid . he also visited the un compound at the center of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing campaign . he regularly defended palestinians ’ right to statehood , but also condemned hamas ’s rocket assaults on south israel .
boom-bust financial cycles are being driven largely by the shocks generated in the advanced economies , but they are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . moreover , advanced economies ’ spillover effects from monetary policies extend far beyond financial shocks . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , although region volatility has risen globally , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in advanced economies . likewise , emerging economies suffer from the effects on developed countries ’ external imbalances – especially the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus . in the last several years , deficit economies in the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy – have undertaken massive external adjustment , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large surpluses .
first , the egyptian state ’s unrivaled dominance of egypt ’s military , and the unlikelihood of a split within its leadership make any widespread violence untenable , especially given that the egyptian state ’s fight against terrorism during the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s has significantly weakened jihadist groups ’ operational assets in the country . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now be hijacked by passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they inevitably opt to participate in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . finally , despite significant demographic and economic changes in egypt over the past four decades , egyptian society still retain its agrarian character , which favors conciliation and compromise . in a country with more than 45 million people under the age of 35 , no political player with any strategic insight can afford the prolonged impasse . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will need to answer the vexing question that they failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ?
a factor contributing to their own demise was the shift in thinking that transformed east-west conflicts away from one that emphasized their economic systems . powerful states , such as china and russia , do not restrict themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; rather , they promote those in other countries that have engaged in similar practices . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s reflected a further advance for rights . but the past decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and the tide seems to turn against the human-rights cause in the present decade . the same is true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s seemed a step further toward rights .
supply chains now may have as many significant international links as homegrown ones , and a significant share of internal demand is being met by those products , in part or wholly produced abroad . as technological innovations further reduce entry barriers for both manufacturers and consumers , the proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , amplifying what is already in place a spaghetti bowl of separate relationships and dependencies . for the longer-term health of both individual actors and the overall system , such relationships must function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that is perceived as credible . if not , they risk resulting in even lower levels of growth and welfare growth . this is why the current confrontation between the american and china has raised fears of serious harm , especially if it results in ever-greater protectionism and a broader “ trade war . ”
if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation . once it is out in the cold , it will need to decide with which the economic bloc to align and then accept that the bloc has ’s rules . this is not so much a question as a question as it would be if the us would prefer to have china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over the west ’s many , or european , food and agricultural standards over those of the us . if britain wants to make a deal with others , it will need to agree to common rules . this is not so much a question of sovereignty , or even of satrapy , that is .
in the us , which has the most progressive income taxes among major economies , federal tax reforms that lower rates and broaden the base are being discussed . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households has been one major cause of the sluggish economic recoveries . the gamble has been that a robust , durable recovery would enable banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets fast enough to escape the need for additional bailouts . in europe , the focus on structural reform is on higher retirement ages and on labor-market flexibility . but sluggish growth implies less tax revenues and more demands for payoffs to cushion hardships , imposing pressure on government budgets .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he will support an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . but dahrendorf was adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided by voters rather than by courts declaring the communist party illegitimate . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister was a member of the opposition . on his own , thadden himself avoided providing direct answers , suggesting that he would not fight alongside his sister . nonetheless , dahrendorf was adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided on the ground by voters rather than on courts declaring the communist party illegitimate .
this asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it over the next 15 years , or longer . though financing for public infrastructure has returned to 2008 levels , little is being funneled into new projects . indeed , liquidity remains constrained in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy that included a regulatory regime that is not conducive to long-term investment . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure , investment that is viewed as relatively safe by supply entail little or no construction risk , and that has shown the potential to generate stable cash revenues . to overcome obstacles to investment , we propose creating an asset class that we call the “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bse ) .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master at exultant of political survival . lukashenko was pressured by the removal of russian oil-price subsidies in 2009 to plead , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy from collapsing . he tricked the international monetary fund into expanding $ 3.4 billion of loan lending , promising freer elections in december 2010 alone , only to burn that bridging with a brutal crackdown when faced with adverse election results and the largest popular protests ever seen . yet , at a time of only 64 % currency devaluations , he appears set to go out on his protracted misrule . now russia has gotten a tougher line , demanding a hefty price for borrowing , which is likewise inadequate to rescue the regime .
indeed , it has become increasingly clear that china has opened its economy merely to maintain the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , rather than to upholding and enhance ordinary chinese ’s livelihoods . in its current struggles with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintain old thought control . but , fortunately for anyone with perseverance and a modicum of computer prowess , internet leaks like a sieve can not be allowed to disappear . the great advance of china ’s economy over the last 30 years is something all chinese celebrate . but liu ’s jailing also demonstrates in the specialty that china ’s neglect of human rights is flowing to the outside world alongside the masses of chinese goods .
at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted at the impending reforms with surprising speed . in a recent signed commentary , published in people ’s daily , he noted that , “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” given these mounting concerns , the implementation risks are now manifested in a rather different light . liu , a master tactician , appears to tell the links between leadership power and the pace of reform . liu , a master tactician , appears to inform the connections between leadership power and the pace of reform .
a similar finding , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . the situation of the 7-9 million roma who live on the continent merits the continent 's urgent attention on the grounds that they shape the enlarged eu 's policies . a broad socioeconomic congruity exists between europe 's majority population and roma , or " gypsies " ; many of whom live in extreme poverty . the roma are the continent 's fastest growing and poor minority . left largely unchanged , this rigid poverty threatens to turn a durable drag on european prosperity into a tragedy for the roma and non-roma alike .
within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers to address matters of internal security . but where its actions are insufficient , the right , and the responsibility of china ’s central government are both to intervene . to help establish a solution , we have conducted a pest ( political , economic , social , sociocultural , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects . on the political front , the big lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security . it may not be this way ; it may not be so .
and this , in turn , could mark the beginning of a slow-motion process of european disintegration . consider pro-european forces ’ need to campaign for a coordinated effort to counter a cyclical slowdown , and , most important , a cohesive and aggressive policy towards solving europe ’s longstanding structural problems . above all , it needs an agenda of ideas for research and development , educational research and social inclusion , which could appeal to large parts of the population in every member country . should they fall , the outlook for a parliament dominated by populist forces will become a reality . in france , the european parliament elections this may be less than four months away .
when asked about whether america was prepared to become the world ’s second-largest economy , they became reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining america ’s potential to become “ a number of two ” points to a career suicidal for an american politician . on the contrary , intellectuals have a special duty to think the unthinkable , and to speak the unspeakable . they are to think of every opportunity , even disagreeable ones , to prepare populations for prospective developments . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fill the expectations of those who put them in office .
mexico city – the ongoing innovation era , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire economies of scale at a breathtaking pace , was dubbed the “ fourth industrial revolution . ” it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , switzerland , and justifiably so . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , business environments , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to an economy ’s successes , and mexico is no exception . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume more .
for example , the payroll-tax cut act , which would enable small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – may require lowering the rents . and landlords pays a 15 % tax on rents , while unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . in reality , italy ’s ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains from government bonds , with entrepreneurs risking some capital to launch new firms to pay as much as 50 % of their start-up costs in taxation . similarly , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to about 2 % of its total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % for 4 % , and the government is planning to slash it further .
and , though thousands – perhaps tens of thousands , of protesters congregated before the supreme court in more than a few weeks , with some eight million citizens voting for pis in the 2015 election . current polls indicate that pis ’s popular popularity has risen to around 40 % , more than twice that of its previous ruling party , civic platform ( po ) . this suggests that , while poles may be reluctant to agree with pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to gamble much for free courts , or for liberal-democratic principles generally . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński can now proclaim that , “ the european commission wo n’t break poland ’s ’s will on fine-tuning reforms … unless we reform the judiciary ; other reforms will have very little sense because , sooner rather than later , they negated , the courts that the us currently has . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands most public support and that the ecj will most likely be unable to act in time .
tim thinking that he took a different view , ” ” and so on , as though an oral historian interviewed by an oral historian , tim hank argued . the main interests lies not so much in narrative chapters that cover the same ground as their past books , as in their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they were able to reach out to consensus on quite a radical agenda . three proposals , above all , should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard . there is also some routine praise for two presidents to work with , both george w. bush and barack obama , and to reprise about their frustrations with people who did not see the world their way , and to obstructed their own solutions , such as sheila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and various pesky members of congress .
likewise , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom believe that trump is hubris , and just 50 % still believe that the us and the united kingdom have a special relationship now that she is in office . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk was indefinitely postponed . sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable to western europe . in germany , just 6 % of respondents believe that he is qualified to hold his current office , and 91 % regards him as arrogant . the countries with trump have the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see the us favorably ) , and hungary ( 63 % ) both run by populist right-wing governments .
in the sixteenth century , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france acquired from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its naval . in his 2009 inaugural address , us president barack obama asserted that , “ us power grows through its prudent use ; our security emancipates from the spirit of justness of the cause ; the force of our example , temperate qualities of humility and restraint . ” shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton declared that “ america can not fix the most pressing problems on the us and the world can not resolve them without america . ” today , it is far from clear how measured the balance of power is , much less how it is possible to develop successful strategies for survival . conventional wisdom has always held that a state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age may be the state ( or non-state ) with the best narrative that wins .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy , evidently drawing inspiration from this experience , saying that france will be happy if it can force parliament to reform . of course , the truth is that an authoritarian system , – whatever their short-term successes in clinging to a line against irresponsible policies – is unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiency – the problems for which china now values . the challenge for democracies nowadays is to develop mechanisms to enable them to set policies that are sustainable in the long run , while at the same time impeding the democratic process by itself . a public consensus supporting difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that swedish voters succeed in understanding and adopting tradeoffs at a time when they have no perceived alternatives .
my father realized that he could not go it alone , requiring better access to finance . going to nebraska ’s university and helping my grandfather to save a family farm of banks , which had already repossessed one-third of that land . he turned to nebraska ’s university , where he had received his undergraduate level and acquired hybrid maize and other improved seeds that university were developing . the most important change that my father made was in the thinking : he had come to think of the farm not as a subsistence operation , but as a family enterprise . he then tracked the inputs and the weather conditions that rarely did so at that time .
it also means applying strict co2 emissions limits to new traveling lines of cars , public transport , and the commercial sea and air transport networks . and it means making europe , together with our vehicle industry , the continent ’s first electric-vehicle by 2030 . second , europe must take the lead in responsible resource use , becoming a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , eight billion tons of materials are being processed into the eu ’s energy or products annually . just 0.6 billion tons of energy , a mere 7.5 % , originate from recycling , to just ten % .
from my perspective as a group ’s sole european member , an overarching message should be that america must conceive of itself not just as “ an indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as “ an indispensable partner . ” that is not just a matter of semantics ; such a change will require that an american conceive of itself re-conceive its global role . but the payoff , for both the american and the liberal world order that it created would be a substantial one . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought a team of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into foreign-policy debates , including by preparing public debate paper . the key to success will be america ’s ability to retain the best – thereby abandoning the worst – of which most american regard : exceptionalism .
between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income barely moved from $ 600 , whereas the uk has quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) and even spain has doubled . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita per capita suggest that china ’s economic “ retardation ” began well before its confrontation with the west . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply a “ restoration ” of the country ’s achievements enjoyed prior to nineteenth-century west torturing its harmonious system . outsiders misconstrued this system , “ built upon a manifestly defined scheme , ” as xiang describes it , with its blood-lines of royal legitimacy at the apex of the state , and “ scholar gentry to administer affairs of statehood , ” as a recipe for stagnation . consequently , china ’s political stability , and the relative absence of a form of violence , has been accomplished at the expense of economic dynamism rather than in harmony with it .
morocco is well positioned to foster security and development across northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , an open economy , and a balanced international relationship are increasingly aligned with those of america and europe . this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco , for example , its deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also into other zones of conflict , like one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . moreover , morocco is a faithful and longstanding us ally . to stem the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a perilous and complex region .
most of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-tied , testosterone-driven types , but , in their scholarly careers , exhibit two kinds of typically male behavior . the first expresses compulsion to establish completely trivial facts about science . the questions posed by women ’s members of faculty , particularly in the basic sciences , are far more complicated . as i grow older , i am no longer sure why this matters , but our male members of our species seem to think so . here , i suspect that the problem reflects a profound disparity between how women and men approach science as microcosm of life .
this , together with the prominence of an advisory council ( comprising well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , a french expert on political islam gilles kepel , along with flynt leverett , a brookings institution fellow ) , and minority rights , combined with the project of national , regional , and international notice . so far , syria ’s authorities have not responded to a tharwa project . presumably , it is still too soon for the game to work out just a while . but the project does seem to represent a type of activity that can help to shape visions for change . some in the syrian government might have been mindful of this .
this growth reflects the flawed pre-crisis economic model that relied on indifference to where growth ultimately originated , how sustainable it was , and by whom it benefited from it . each new , bilateral agreement , each chapter of globalization , should measure new criteria . how sustainable , and how evenly spread , will the macroeconomic benefits be ? will they facilitate genuine development , providing a dignified way to those who become economically displaced ? learning something from the ongoing crisis must begin to question the right questions .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , managed almost to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) over the next three decades . cambridge – in the euphoric moment after the soviet union ’s collapse in 2010 – few would have imagined that ukraine , a industrialized country with an educated labor force and its vast natural resources , would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years .
here currency appreciation is already underway , pushed by massive capital inflows from the second quarter of 2009 and , in some cases , can already say excessive ( as in brazil , for example ) . of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , just as they did in the wake of the global financial crisis . of course , the result is just as paradoxical : private funds that flow into those countries are being recycled into american treasuries through investment of accumulated reserves . so now consider the other major emerging markets as well . why are emerging-market countries ’ central banks committed to this strange financial intermediation that represents a major cost because their yield on private funds was larger than the reserves ?
central banks were required to inject unprecedented amounts of money and extend credit onto an unprecedented array of securities into a broader range of institutions than was ever before . the asset-backed business paper market has risen to a standstill , and the special-investment vehicles established by banks so that their balance sheets can no longer obtain outside funding . the final blow came when interbank lending , which is at the heart of the financial system , was ballooning , because the banks were obliged to husband their resources and could not trust their counterparties . credit expansion now must be followed by a period of contraction , in the sense that some new instruments of credit and practices are unsound and unsustainable . that has made the crisis far more severe than at any time since the end of world war ii .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the status quo for many years to come . trump ’s bigger problem is that the other us signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal , officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew the united states – remain committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , france , and russia also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . european signatories established the body for a special mechanism to facilitate trade and trade with iran at risk of us retaliation , while russia and china have broadened their economic and strategic ties to the islamic republic , marking the first time in the history of the western alliance that america ’s european allies have joined forces with their rivals . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the status quo for many years to come .
in other words , some in the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . to put this in perspective , the average american pays 15 cents on every dollar spent . the african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save up to $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels – money that can spend on education , health , and productive investment . the firms that provide these panels would , of course , also benefit considerably from tapping this huge new marketplace . an efficient solution to the problem exists : solar-power technologies .
for centuries , this process has been unfolding , but has accelerated in recent decades , with the select few acquired ever-larger portions of overall wealth and political power struggles . today , just 100 corporations produce up to 71 % of all greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % of the world ’s population share a share of ghg emissions , while the world ’s poorest 50 % produce 10 % of emissions . unwilling to confront those who are ravaging our planet , political leaders have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches promising to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere . even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies , in many of its modeled pathways to keeping global temperatures above 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
and , as long as growth slows , owing to higher costs for imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more gradually over time . as a result , imports account for 15 % of us gdp ; thus , for the most part , the us can continue to import less goods . multiply 0.15 by less than 0.10 ( a hypothesized tariff rate ) . allow for some substituting more expensive imported goods and keeps the actual number below 1 % . allowing foreign central banks to do the most good , imports mean that prices can do the same .
and yet , simply revoking citizenship does n’t address the problem of leaving at great a suspected terrorist who may then carry out attacks elsewhere , unless , as with sakr , it is being killed . the capability to revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence in public is one reason that the government might prefer this course to arresting and target terrorism suspects . the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is its desirable balance of individual rights , including the right to citizenship , as well as the public good . suppose that the government is getting it right 19 times far from 20 , when it relies on suspicion of engaging in terror activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . were this to happen in 2013 , a high probability that an innocent , naturalized citizen is being made stateless .
china and india , in particular , should stop constructing new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired power plants throughout asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . governments should set limits on emissions , whereby the private sector should compete to deliver low-cost solutions . private-sector firms will compete intensively to weaken further the costs of their renewable energy systems , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream use like electric vehicles , electric heat and cooking , and a new hydrogen economy . government and entrepreneurship together should fund new research and development to drive costs at an even lower cost . as old fossil-fuel plants age and shut down , clean power generation should be replaced with competitive clean power generation , such as through renewable-energy auctions .
what the mikta countries share is rapid economic growth and rising influence outside their own borders . they have development problems , but so are the models for economic dynamism and innovation , with a significant stake in how post-wwii global institutions and rules are supposed to be reshaped . many of their challenges and ambitions are dovetail with those of the bics ( the brics , minus russia ) . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s emergence from the multilateral scene will be a catalyst for renewed thinking on global challenges . indeed , in the alphabet soup of international politics , nine-member jawbreaker such as bicsmikta may ultimately prove too unwieldy to be workable .
much of the “ stimulus ” merely financed increased spending by state governments , which would then pay for other ways . too little to close the output gap , it left continued downward pressure on demand . seeing how weak the upturn remained , the fed launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policy , ” ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the federal funds rate at exceptionally low levels for an extended period . the objective was to encourage portfolio investors to shift into equities and other assets , with the resulting surge in their price pushing out domestic wealth and consumer spending . other components of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the character of the fiscal package , increased remittances and expenditures added more to the national debt than to gdp .
in denmark , switzerland , switzerland , my own country , economic readiness is not an issue . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily to join . indeed , danish voters have already seen most of the benefits of euro membership , owing to the danish krone ’s unchanging link first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 ’s referendum hinged on a failures of europe ’s ’s ’s supporters to explain the distinction between this non-aligned policy and full participation in the euro . despite different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk also have that in common : they prefer to see the euro as a cap stone in including the single market , rather than as a stepping stone toward ever closer union .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only impediment to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that north korea must first move toward denuclearization before any form of economic aid is offered . but there is no reason why international efforts to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must eliminate policies aimed at bringing about greater domestic reform . nor should we suppose that these goals can be pursued on an equal footing . on the contrary , a victory by north korea to denuclearization may be impossible to win enough to generate far-reaching domestic change .
the mutual distrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably harm the union ’s soul and entire european project . and no one should doubt that the front and its voters mean what it is said . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis lies the european union ’s economic and financial malaise , which no national governments or eu institutions seem capable of addressing . what once was a relationship among equals has given way to a face-off among borrowers and lenders . rather than enhancing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to massive distributional conflicts .
in a section of a “ new economy ” dominated by the producers ’ economies of scale and consumer economies of scope , a firm that puts the market share gains a near-overwhelming advantage . in fact , the larger a market , the larger the cost advantage . a version with the largest market share becomes the norm ; it is the simplest place to take out how best to use , the simplest to find support , and the one that works best with the other products ( which is obviously designed to work best with it ) . moreover , large-scale information goods that are produced locally also make consumers more valuable . unless its rivals take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly steps -- like that adopted by microsoft against netscape , its rival in the internet browser market , by pouring a fortune to create its internet explorer and then dividing it for free – the first firm to establish dominant market positions will reap high profits as long as its industry lasts .
this is why its member states need to take the lead in proposing solutions . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how many should be admitted and it should be putting in place organized ways to facilitate their entry . doing so does not imply the need to accept every vulnerable migrant needs . the most urgent priority should be establishing a safe and legal way to reach europe . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by allowing it to vet applicants fully ) .
as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s ’s political system was designed to make federal legislation difficult , not easy . ” citizens ’ behavior does not appear to have changed as dramatically as have their responses to poll questions . three-quarters of americans feel interconnected in their communities , and say that quality of life there is excellent or good life ; 40 % say that working with others in their communities counts the most . in recent years , american policy and policy institutions have become more polarized than a distribution of views within the american public would suggest . america ’s post-2008 economy downturn made the situation even worse .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as snapshot , telling us where we are , or as moving picture , telling us not only where we are but where we are and where we might be headed . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . it does indeed distinguish an enormous amount of difference . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
that does not necessarily account for inundating humans with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , this approach can lead to desensitization . meanwhile , innovation can fuel pollution abatement , and it can even capture the slightest sign of severe pollution . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while providing equitable access to services among residents are supposed to be subsidized by the central government . for example , shenzhen , ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project to provide on-demand helicopter transit , leverages a city ’s well-known innovative capacity , while addressing congestion . moreover , awareness is the third pillar of the who ’s approach to tackling air pollution .
meanwhile , the most urgent priority now is a de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian societies . a saudi protectorate might be the key to achieving this . maybe , but so far the conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even disastrously . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for comprehensive agreement – could begin again . everything else that has failed is perhaps the only choice left for both israelis and the palestinians .
and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of saving operations . first , europe ’s financial stability facility must serve to save the banking system in exactly the same way that eu member states do . bringing the banking system under european supervision , rather than leaving it at the mercy of national institutions , would constitute a fundamental improvement that is helping to restore confidence . this would enable sovereign debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . despite this added task , the magnitude of the rescue package could remain the same , since any amount used to recapitalize or liquidate banks would reduce the amount that governments need .
second , without effective and responsible opposition , governments can become arrogant , careless , and overly focused on their own supporters . third , at the beginning of next year , at least , the uk faces a referendum over its membership in the european union . while no one knows that corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he – like some trade-union bosses who back him – might decide that the eu is a wealthy guy ’s club , thereby precluding much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership . in that case , the far-right conservative party ’s leaders are likely to think that they can dispense with offer of disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , either . on the other hand , may will be able to galvanize a number of alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary respect but little love .
at that point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , accepting a discount on the amounts that they owed to them . the american government felt that it had the weak hand , because it was not prepared to let aig default on any of its existing obligations . the bailout implied aig ’s massive losses from its derivative transactions with its financial institutions , most mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after an government infusion of funds in september 2008 caused aig to continue to mount , so the government provided a substantial amount of additional capital , say , two months later . at that point , the government requested that aig ’s derivative counterparties be taken in voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , accepting a discount on what amounts actually owed to them .
at last , the world must recognize that the hope stirred by the 1990 ’s peace process was dashed entirely . israel will feel free to retaliate in response to cross-border attacks , and to engage in continuing rocket fire into civilian targets inside the country . israel has long since decided that it has no interest in reneging on its control over gaza strip . gaza is ruled by an entirely hostile regime , and has yet to be fully hostile . in some ways , hamas ’s coup is making things clearer , and we can not afford it .
the aberrant period in us history is the century or so years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally transformed societies . human lives became markedly more productive and live expectancies have risen dramatically . moreover , the global population grew more than 50 % between 1800 and 1900 , and then it doubled in the subsequent 50 years , with economies growing far faster than in earlier centuries . in the late 1970s , growth started to slow in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that super-cautious activity . technological innovations and demographics are currently headwind , rather than tailwind , in terms of gdp growth , and financial engineering can not save the day .
the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp foreign minister general , is an exemplar of this bewildering legacy . japan ’s political inertia consists in the current , pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because divisions within the party are , in fact , devoid of any consistent ideological and political distinctions . both parties comprise conservatives as well as liberals , defense hawks , and doves , respectively . the sad fact is that the chances that either ldp will reform or that the dpj develops into a responsible government party for the foreseeable future are slim . japan appears condemned to endure chronic and senseless warfare , until some crisis forces the realignment of any political parties along its ideological and political lines .
and because his suspension of the parliament has outraged insurgent conservatives , who previously balked at bringing down his own government , an no-confidence vote now stands for a greater chance of succeeding . but rolling down the government would be inadequate to stem the no-deal brexit . a motley crew of insurgents also would need to encourage the emergence of a uk landslide government that seeks a brexit extension , call a general election , and perhaps legislate for a second referendum . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , the hardline tory socialist and closet brexiteer insists on leading such a government . that would call for conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats ( spd ) , and mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s may leadership to rally behind him – a tall order .
asi ’s gains stem from apple ’s own intellectual property ( ip ) , which rely entirely on american-made research and development ( much of it underpinned by the federal government ’s funding of funds ) . those profits should , therefore , be taxed within the us . ordinarily , the irs choose not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay a tax on its profits from us-sourced ip returns . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee to permit it to profit from apple ’s ip rights for which it pays a miniscule tax to the irs . hence , those irs should be taxed .
each has acquired ( or maintained ) power through polarizing control of their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . the pekos ’ political style has been enabled by high-tech news media , which have scrambling to share , streamline , and sensationalizing issues . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to win the most exposure . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , producing the electoral polarization on which the pekos have fed . no doubt , this political strategy is effective .
that suggestion may be amusing coming from a child , but there is nothing funny when governments apply it , as they increasingly do to the complex policies engaging with science and technology . to gauge public opinion in advance of a decision scheduled for this year on whether to permit commercial planting of gm crops , british officials have sponsored ( at great expense ) a host of public debates around the country . britons have their say during this summer , for example , on whether they want gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields , and food . the head of the british debates ’ organizing committee , professor malcolm deferral , has called them a “ unique experiment to see what ordinary people really think once heard about all arguments . ” local governments and other organizations have been meeting hundreds of additional public meetings .
there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders , eager to return to business as usual with russia , and academic apologists for the soviet union , who 25 years after its implosion , see a chance for vindication . and , with public-opinion polls revealing that a substantial minority of europeans is falling in line with putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato seems to be making genuine headway . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes with which to hang it . in reality , the kremlin is funding many of these parties . nowadays , european governments seem willing to let putin buy votes with which he destroys the eu .
according to a world bank estimate , about 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – land that millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous people – is plagued by widespread investment . in germany alone , construction projects account for over 75 hectares of arable land in more than 75 hectares of day . it takes millennia for fertile land to shape ; in many locations , cloudburst now is all it takes to wash it off . poor agricultural practices act is also to blame : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizers ; for example , they decimates organisms inhabiting soil and changing their structure . at the same time , worldwide , food-related demand , fodder and smokestack biomass are growing , in turn driving the value of land grabs , a failure to escape ’ international investors ’ attention .
iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances , aimed at putting pressure on defiant states . an america ’s war against iran is plausible merely as a response to a blatant and immediate iranian challenge to vital american interests in the region , such as a major terrorist attack , an invasion of an ally in the gulf , or a disruption of the free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . the iranian regime has been all too astute to cross any of these red lines . convinced that history will judge a president by his success in containing the iranian threat , iran also assumes that a war with iran would reignite the american economy . that is an odd idea , given that today ’s two continuing wars have only compounded america ’s economy .
while germany ’s president can not intervene to intervene to support the country ’s day-to-day management , his voice will undoubtedly be influential . it is here that germany should take pause and look at the record . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and do not count as expenditures – continue to impede investment required to modernize public-sector firms , and to place a major roadblock in the path of land reform . so far , the imf ’s economic framework does not offer a basis for counter-cyclical fiscal policies ; on the contrary , the imf remains ambivalent about its standard of keynesian prescription of stimulating an economy when a downturn comes . for example , when a government borrows to buy land , treating like a debt is the offsetting transaction when it sells the land through the lender effectively going unrecognized .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as us president , but questions about russia ’s interference in the election will not go away . to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin has favored trump on his opponent , former us secretary of state , hillary clinton . but there is a difference between the hopes for an outcome and a great lengths to incurring great risks , in helping to bring it about . in our view , american intelligence agencies ’ assumption that , by helping trump , the kremlin was advancing its “ longstanding ” aspiration to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order is not fully compelling . yet one key question is frequently lost on the fray : why did russian president vladimir putin do it ?
specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances india ’s ease of doing business while targeting better delivery mechanisms for welfare schemes . moreover , the country is projected to grow by an average of at least 8-8.5 % over the next fiscal year alone . it is fair to say that the typically staid department has stolen thunder from this year ’s budget . none of the budget changes could generate this marked , cost-free accelerated growth . nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts , not least in its convergence to vision and implementation .
japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . after the failure of its imperialist greater east asia ’s co-prosperity scheme of the 1930 ’s ( which had soft-power components of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized its military might and relied on strategic alliance with the us . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , and spent substantial resources to make itself attractive overseas . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country has developed only modest military and soft power . in its first decades , a communist china has built its military strength and simultaneously used the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . but , following the depletion of a maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market-based mechanisms to foster economic development .
likewise , since early this year , carbon-dioxide emissions have dropped dramatically , and the authorities appear well on a path to hitting the carbon-intensity targets set in 2010 . now , regulatory reform is beginning to mitigate shadow-banking risk , with even certain ghost towns being animated by market forces . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone so far as to take away a retired politburo standing committee member , china ’s most powerful body . at the forthcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to maintain the momentum of reform . to succeed , government must , as xi put it , “ graw even tough bones ” – that is , overcome the vested interests that resist change .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
in keeping with the spirit of times , governments introduce business criteria to measure efficiency -- and “ success , ” more broadly -- -- of public services . this means , first of all , establishing performance targets . so the ministers proclaim that street crime will be halved next spring , or that the proportion of every generation going to universities will rise to 50 % in just five years . waiting lists for hospital beds will be cut by about one-third in the next two years . this governance method makes it seem that at long last we can hold policymakers accountable by setting whether targets were reached or out well .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo has devised a new extreme sport , a soccer game in which he is the sole player . rather than kicking the ball into victory , he is focusing , in a way such that his opponents scores . this helps explain why , with more than half of his term left , the man who led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % of his popularity ratings today – any peruvian leader ’s low ranking since 1980 when a liberal democracy was restored . toledo assumed a presidency planning to rescind the very corruption that marked fujimori ’s administrations , and an end to the reign of his crooked intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos . toledo claimed that he would send all dishonest officials to prison – words that captured the imagination of peruvians craved to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debates with carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies made it more useful for his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry ’s might have been . another event that could turn the tables would be the “ october surprise ” association over terrorism that might switch the agenda from a financial crisis back to security , republican senators ’ stronger preoccupations . back in 2004 , shortly before the recent election , osama bin laden released a videos that may have helped president bush defeat senator john kerry . a mistake in some presidential debate may turn the tide of popular perception overnight , as happened to president aristide in his 1976 debate with jimmy carter .
so , why not elect a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance into politics bring about an ideal solution to putin ’s quest problem ? that search , after all , threatens to split the nation-states ’s ’s ’s ’s elite . but i see a practical turn on all of this that nobody has broached . let us compare the two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 , and lugovoi in 2007 .
such thinking poses a grave threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and generally undermining the liberal world order , governments will severely harm the extremes of africa and other underdeveloped regions of the world , while doing almost nothing in helping western virginia ’s coal miners . the powerful will always govern , but the weak will bear the burden of a nostalgic protectionism that erodes the benefits of globalization . the united nations sustainable development goal of eradicating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 depends entirely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . their mythical tribe has been magnificent in some of the mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ?
at the same time , state involvement is necessary to help manage inequality and ensure an inclusive growth model that markets alone can not be counted on to do so . without question , the state has proved integral to china ’s development , not just by investing in areas such as infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a back-up as nascent markets and private-sector institutions developed . moreover , the chinese state has solved coordination problems that are not readily or efficiently handled through decentralized markets , especially in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities may be at different stages of development . others argue that defusing the innovations needed to reach high-income status requires that the state be less like a market participant , and more like an observation , a regulator , and an arbiter of economic and social priorities . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role to uphold the social stability that is necessary to sustain economic development .
egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will surpass 11 % of gdp this year . yet the country ’s ’s ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of much-needed international monetary fund lending . the government ’s cuts in fuel subsidies last year did not follow through on further reforms , before demanding tax increases came abruptly after then-president mohamed morsi announced it . nearly all the political stakeholders in egypt , as elsewhere in the transition region , recognize the need for economic reform . yet economic urgency can not translate into a policy response that was painstakingly slow or non-existent .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that among the almost one-half of reductions in government expenditures , common adjustment measures involve public-sector wage or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . such adjustment measures are often adopted without a careful examination of their social impact . how many poor children will suffer – or die – from food shortages and quality health care ? and yet , this could , on a large scale , happen very well . how many children will miss out on education because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family incomes ?
indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . first , the world has a large stake in that scenario . the first scenario is bleak : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , surges in political discontent , and the newcomers become increasingly frustrated with their plight . any steps that they take to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists and could result in violence from both parties . if there were a worst case for a terrorist attack , especially one that , to some extent , could be connected to refugees , nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric in german society .
what is clear is that the interest of a “ military as an institution ” will depend on an army with the capacity to establish a much greater disconnect from the regime . successful political transitions are also being facilitated if an increasing number of and more citizens are brought to the feel that it is somehow these things that it “ own the protests and the resulting transition . ” at that point , a more active democratic transition will most likely require the army to play a more active role in protecting the protestors . attention to the demand for mubarak ’s immediate resignation originated in cairo ’s tahrir square in this regard than from the obama administration represents a positive development . on the other hand , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or horses – to charge into cairo ’s tahrir square , and to invade thousands of anti-government protesters was a classical “ army ” move .
given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or kowtow to its own torturers to justice in us courts ) , such a role would leave such an international as well as a domestic political assault . nevertheless , the scale of american cooperation with the icc has superseded even the constructive role that the obama administration had proposed . at the same time , it obviously will work in close collaboration with ugandan forces . evidently , american policymakers have become increasingly receptive to undergird the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms for some new form of global engagement . but does the us operate in uganda , following so narrowly integrated attacks on libya , herald a police role for the us whenever the un or the icc – which , lacking an independent police force , relies on its members , and interstate cooperation – it is essential ?
deep at the heart of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future is brighter than the present ; that what you get into your hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves , rather than the state ; that humans can cross the oceans and mountains in order to find themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed do not so through lack of luck and corruption through preparation and industry . part of the reason not to recognize what is happening , in fact , is that most americans do not recognize what is happening . one poll found that 19 % of americans think that their incomes place them at the top 1 % of the income distribution -- and that about 20 % more hope to reach the top 1 % someday . none of this is beliefs , of course , that the economic impact of social democracy is improving . so , why are n’t americans feeling more alarm about their country ’s rising income inequality ?
stockholm – our generation has a unique window of opportunity , most of all . that is the course that world leaders set when they met at the united nations in new york on september 25 to adopt sustainable-development goals ( sdgs ) . they emerged from the biggest summit in the un ’s history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , which was followed by the biggest consultation that the un has ever conducted . the sdg 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health equity to protecting the planet ’s biosphere , and providing energy to all . by setting our mind , we could be the first in human history to abandon our children nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity .
victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and many , with their sense of safety , and even self-worth eroded , removed , removed altogether from social media . when an algorithm does not do a job of silencing a less underprivileged voice , online trolls frequently step down , directing hateful , and threatening speech at the whomever that they select . for example , a german blogger , richard gutjahr , has become a protest of conspiracy theories and a target of vigorous harassment after being present in two weeks of each other . so noisiest is often rewarded with a “ megaphone ” while less polarizing , less privileged voices are drowned out , even as the clever and nuanced perspectives that can actually enrich public debate . as a result , women and minorities are especially at the victim of online harassment , but anyone can be targeted at all .
i single out of america not because it is unique in its disregard , but because it is unique in its capability to lead . africans do not vote ; they buy us products ; they do not threaten violence . in fact , few rich countries are doing any better than america 's . they are , of course , simply poor , hungry and disease-ridden . still , africans do barely count in american policy .
krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributes a crash to “ irrationality ” , a ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that , as cochrane points out , is devoid of narrative . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . hence , as he put it in 1932 , a “ no escape from prolonged and potentially interminable depressions , except through direct state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” – that is , what the obama administration is rightly doing . on questions of what caused the crash , debate tends to do more even . in my view , keynes ’s primary contribution to economic theory was to stress the “ extreme precariousness of the knowledge upon which our estimates of prospective yield had to be made .
cape town – nowadays , people are far too often forced to choose between doing what is the morally right thing , and do what is economically beneficial . sometimes , though moral rectitude and economic interest merge , presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case – from the perspectives of that archbishop and former minister of finance – with the world bank ’s response to climate change . the moral imperative is indisputable , because the effects of climate change – which includes extreme weather events , temperature change , and rising sea levels – are being felt most acutely by the global poor , who have benefited the least from the economic activities that cause it . indeed , their options sometimes seem mutually exclusive , making a decision about which paths to take exceedingly demanding .
and , on that day , he was so well lamented that his absence looked like a part of a show , somehow acknowledging that he was no longer with us . hallyday was the child of a generation watching the american gis entering paris , and that invented for itself an american ascendance . abiding in every us was johnny that relocated us all : youth spent with a traveling act , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; a father , a character out of modiano bouts of drinking , pawned gifts given that his deserted son . he was the consummate per0s artist from the french scene , chameleon beamed on satellite tv , dripping with fake sweat and actual glitz , an artist who confessed as a way of lying . and then there was the 7,60s rocker with the eyes of griometti and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher in the rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn you to live on the edge of every upside .
moreover , it was capitalism of the post-wwii decades that kept full employment constant , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . job insecurity back then was largely unknown , and the risk of mass poverty disappeared in some parts of the world . the keys to this period of growth and happiness were deep social welfare systems and , above all , keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in all the great states of the world . above all , each advanced economy was pursuing policies designed to provide high wages to guarantee high consumption and , therefore , rapid growth . of course , it was subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to financial crises of the type we are seeing regularly .
that seems to reflect the stance – expressed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – that helped set the stage for the brexit process . the us is both interested and linked , but not yet absorbed . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but not without the united kingdom ; there would be no british financial participation in the future european rescue operations . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and perhaps a slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity . solidarity ( at least the kind that cost money ) stopped at the english channel .
what the west can do is apply to pressure from iran and other governments on the future to assure and account for protesters ’ safety . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who promote free assembly . that will be welcome news to those living under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by america , and opposition leaders and us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in just such protests . during this time of crisis , an american president should draw a united front with human-rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow , sustain , and encourage those iranians , who are or might yet be arrested or , worse than that . natan sharansky argued that this tactic , the west ’s monitoring and demand accountability to deal with individual internal dissenters helped break with the soviet union .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to consolidate the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . russia should be treated as a major power , implying consultations on important global issues . closer ties between russia and the european union make sense for a similar reason . there should be some understanding , too , for what the russians and russians have gone through the last two decades . losing a country and a unique place to the world is the sort of trauma that could fuel extreme and potentially violent nationalism .
but a consensus has emerged in brazil that a center-left party could neither win nor govern with hard-left fantasies , and lula ’s presidency has failed to question that view . the consensus may have reflected lula ’s accomplishments , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and brazil ’s growth in the middle class . but a consensus has emerged in brazil that a center-left party can neither win nor govern with hard-left fantasies , and lula ’s presidency has failed to challenge this view . whatever the case , for key brazilian leaders , including rousseff , that capitalism has become part of the solution , not a fundamental problem . most are not always the legal ones on which the world bank and development agencies have been focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a failed company or a polity that implodes .
my reduced cost will , of course , be someone else ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s reduced income – and not just that of apple . one big losers in this world will be the firms of freight businesses ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . products will not need to be created in those factories , and then shipped to customers or inventory centers . when things can be made , they will be worn out , broken/packaged out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation declines dramatically . recycled materials need not deliver to centralized processing centers and then transmit them to factories .
london – in the 1960s , a green revolution that comprised the development of higher-yielding crop varieties , expanded irrigation infrastructure under land and water constraints , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers bolstered agricultural output worldwide . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in the developing world , affecting much of the most by crop shortages and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to surpass nine billion . achieving food security means ensuring that every person has consistent , affordable access to safe nutrients , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and the increasing prevalence of resource-intensive pool diets that accompany rising incomes . surmounting these challenges will not be easy , either .
indeed , for many years now , domestic critics of erdoğan ’s administration have been denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” ” ” ” ” ” ” of the military . turkey , not the european union , currently makes its presence felt worldwide . yet the course of its history may change fast , if it does . in reality , turkey needs europe just as much as europe needs turkey . europe is to turkey , for example , “ the principle of moderation versus the enticement to remain democratic .
that amounts to just over 0.5 % of its annual military budget of roughly $ 718 billion . more people have died from cancers in america last year than from combat . in fact , last year alone , ’s 580,000 cancer deaths exceed the approximately 430,000 battle deaths , on average , in world war i , world war i , world war i , the korean war , the vietnam war , the vietnam war , and the gulf wars . yet government spending on cancer averages roughly $ 4 trillion a year , and it is only 1 % higher . conversely , experience indicates that governments are often struggling to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats until they reach a crisis point .
i had hoped that we would have the nerve to overcome our perceived humiliations and begin to look deep into our national psyche and ask the big question “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a manner ? ” a journalist visiting saudi arabia recently asked me why the five out of the six students that he interviewed at king saud ’s university still believe that al qaida was not actually responsible for attacks on the world trade center and pentagon in america last year ? dealing with that question is an increasingly annoyed one , for i have run out of plausible explanations . i used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what had happened on that dark day . so far we are no closer than we were in the aftermath of the attacks to answer to that question , for we can not find our nerve to ask it .
moreover , income inequality has widened , with a worldwide phenomenon of increasing concentration of wealth at the very top very sharply in many arab countries . whereas tunisia was an extreme case of a regime furthering insiders ’ economic interests , the pattern has been widespread . that is why a knee-jerk authoritarian , the simplistic “ washington consensus ” the prescription of more liberalization and privatization is inconvenient for the arab world in 2012 . top incomes in these countries stem largely from political patronage , rather than from innovations and hard work . there is a clear political need for a growth strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece , rather than an afterthought .
germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , meaning it is getting acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by its major trading partners . but that is no longer the case . indeed , trump ’s recent actions focus not only on trade , but on america ’s departure from the pax americana itself . few countries relate more closely to the postwar order than to germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to the rules-based trading system . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950s .
the simplest way to achieve both goals would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries . france has some of the highest labor costs for hourly employees in the eu ; and the natural consequence is tepid hiring . with inequality also on the rise , many french are rightly upset that labor is taxed far more than capital gains . during macron ’s ’s first five-year term , the focus should be on boosting france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % annually and reducing the unemployment rate to just under 6 % . a portion of the unemployment challenge is tied to the hidden cost .
in early december , putin signed the 2015 federal budget , which foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit of 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , coupled with the tough economic sanctions that the united states and europe imposed , meant that by late month the us government was predicting 4 % decline in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp – and that following budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , what is forecast is that by the end of this year russia will spend 70 % of the reserves fund accrued over the past decade , or so when oil prices were high . if low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of cash until the end of 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
given this , libra will take the form of private money tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ? a standard “ efficient market for governance ” analysis wo n’t help us answer that question , because , in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting . but , of course , libra is marketed as much more . if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies , with a single touch of their smartphones , would n’t they then pass that safe asset , at the first sign of domestic problems ? as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to send money as easy as sending a text message . ”
should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in america 's financial assets at a certain moment , a rising europe will help to shield europe 's interest rates from the consequences . the most recent rising euro has also helped to keep down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity is how inflationary expectations have worsened somewhat in the euro-zone members . a rate on ten-year german-style bond yields , which may have been expected to go higher because of deterioration in inflationary expectations during this period , barely moved . this has been a big plus for sustaining german economic recovery . during april , rising inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation occurred more or less concurrently .
this political entity amounts to a precise counterpart in the political world to a well-known physical phenomenon of either splinterintering or fissuring ( now ! ) . of the six bigger eu states , only france has a truly well-defined centralized political system . of poland ’s six larger eu states , only france has a genuinely well-defined centralized political system . when stressed , grand surface bifurcates in large chunks , but then disintegration continues in smaller , smaller fragments . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of the colorful variety of small and medium-size political units . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wishes to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with a future mandated by a scottish referendum in 2014 .
just as we hue our leaders ’ orders to fight and die , we entrust our careers and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs and other banks , for we believe that their leaders would be fair to their staff and clients , and honorable in their business practices . we do n’t grow up wishing to work for crooks and liars . just as we follow our leaders ’ dictates to fight and die because we trust our judgment , we entrust our careers and our money to those who run citigroup and goldman sachs and other banks , respectively , because we believe that their leaders will come to be fair to their staff and clients , and honorable in their business practices . once that trust breaks down , wrong things happen .
he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to a compromise rather than a rage – in sharp contrast with , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . despite rising to power with a kgb backing , he failed to surrender his fantasies processes to do that machine , in the manner president vladimir putin apparently did . ultimately , by treating the soviet union as a kind of ossified structure , he could not save it ; but thanks largely to gorbachev in his fundamental style , the ussr ’s demise made it rather peaceful . likewise , far from fitting a democratic machine ’s mold , sanders has been working to pull the party back – at the expense of the social democratic left , where it belongs . like franco and sanders before them , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer .
unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators throw up large numbers when describing the gains from even imperfect agreement . whatever economics takes this route may be harder today than it has ever been : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that embrace what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . that leaves developing countries facing a stark choice : will they be better accepting the crumbs offer to them ? true , america ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . those in the developing world who believe that bargaining history has existed in bad faith have a powerful case .
princeton – more recently , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) , the world ’s biggest particle accelerator , located near geneva at the european nuclear research organization ( cern ) , announced the celebrated discovery in the 2012 of the higgs boson being indeed higgs boson . four years ago , doomsayers predicted that the lhc would produce microscopic black holes that swallow earth in a matter of months . of course , these prophets were neither the first nor the last of their species . the latter-day nostrums have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , of high-energy particle physics experiments . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete , save for one important thing : black holes .
indeed , monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments tried to tame hyperinflation , which peaked at 2,477 % in 1993 . the introduction of a “ real plan , ” launched in 1994 , has managed to choke off annual price growth to a level of “ acceptable ” 22 % by next year . today , as central bankers in the advanced countries fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again brought to bear to bear on the reality of widespread fears about slowing growth and a return to high inflation . riding on a plan of success , his architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a former economy minister , was twice re-elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) , underscoring voter fears of price stability .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum became grim . most chastened of all were central bankers . those who assumed the view that globalization , technology , and market economies will resolve the world ’s problems seem subdued . against the background of the subprime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” appeared to be less omniscient than they were a short time ago . and it was not only the outstanding bankers in davos doghouse that year , but also their regulators – central bankers .
diamond has discovered that , ultimately , policymakers trump bankers – at least in the uk – – – – – threaten to bail out large banks . banks and politics , in turn , are deeply intertwined across all advanced economies . the european central bank has provided great emergency financing to banks that they are using to purchase even more government debt . this holds down interest rates on that debt in the short run but creates an even bigger potential loss for potential defaults . now , in view of the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone periphery , government defaults threaten to take away big banks .
for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980s has been an increasingly heavy-handed drag on tfp , contributing to wasteful and inefficiencies in existing production systems . this could be addressed through fine-tuning in infrastructure investment and management between the public and private sectors , crowding out the latter ’s objective . despite the low average growth rate , its income from the bottom quintile of the population grew by more than 6 % annually in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social policies . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improving health-care access , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . even so , brazil has a long way to go .
iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the remainder . according to recent data running through july or august for most countries , there are “ only ” 14 cases of high inflation ( the red lines within a figure ) . in the period after the oil shocks of the 1970s , almost two-thirds of all countries recorded an inflation rate above 10 % . the share of countries recording outright deflation in their consumer prices ( greece ) is higher in 2015 than that of countries experiencing double-digit rates of inflation ( around 7 % of gdp ) . venezuela ( which earlier failed to publish official inflation-fighting statistics this year ) and argentina ( which failed to unleash robust inflation data for several years ) figure prominently in that group .
in the absence of sufficient funding , one can simply let universities deteriorate . to the most part , the fast fixes that are imposed so far have not been very successful . on the european continent , this has been happening since the 1970 ’s . overcrowded classrooms in often insufficient physical surroundings , with no necessary facilities , have led to ever-increasing rates of study , reduced quality degrees , and a lot of unhappiness among both student and professors . there is an alternative to higher education .
only war ’s bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . as a political activist in yugoslavia ’s last days , i tried to build on the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . the kosova need to be liberated from milosevic ’s grip has been so visible for a full decade . two million kosovars suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of their life , from basic security to education . for years , they tried to express their grievances through peaceful means .
simultaneously , nation-building efforts along secular lines were mirrored in egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party , resulting in the establishment of the united arab republic , the union between egypt and syria , which lasted from 1958 to 1961 . the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world was the result of neither political inclination , instead reflecting a widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 more than 130,000 different lives already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt ’s return of power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was its only success . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thereby clearing the way for what will become the middle class and fairest elections in any of the region .
far too much of the meat that we consume stems under questionable environmental , ethical , and social conditions . berlin – the practice that we consume in the industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , 300 million tons of meat is produced every year , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that its annual gdp will grow to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues at current rates . such vast sums of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale and at a high cost to social , political , and ecological costs . and now the us industrial model for flesh production is exporting to the global south – especially india and china – where meat consumption is rising among these countries ’ emerging middle class .
cambridge – for some time now , america ’s four horsemen of macroeconomic policymaking have been taxed , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . having studied the initial through detail , i found that the tax cut to be a positive contributor to economic growth . while i regarded the second area on less note , the evidence suggests that regulation is at best only a minor contributor to growth . a third area holds highly important implications , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so daunting . the fourth area exists only in rhetoric : an infrastructure program currently is not part of a macroeconomic policy repertoire .
at that point , with china facing the same productivity challenges confronting america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize that risk . indeed , as gordon notes , long-achieved productivity dividends associated with urbanization are certain to continue , a trend could continue for at least the next decade in china itself . but the time will come when this tailwind subsides , and china begins to converge on the “ frontier of advanced economies . ” without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle .
the sad truth is that the window of opportunity for puerto rico ’s fiscal boat has not taken hold . on the contrary , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan and an agreement with bond holders issued by the puerto rico emergency interest fund ( cofina ) that could place the island at a debt straitjacket indefinitely . but the plan was intended to depress economic activity even further , failing to lay the right groundwork for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico will need . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , underpinned by an unrealistic assessment of a commonwealth ’s economic conditions . at $ 17.8 billion , holdings of cofina bonds ( backed by future sales-tax receipts ) account for over one-third of total debt in a new fiscal plan .
we raised awareness of the plight of the displaced , bringing about a change in government policies and lifting billions of dollars to respond to their fundamental needs . this has helped to save countless lives , and more than ever before . the achievements are notable , if inadequate . humanitarian efforts continue to be bolstered , including through a new rapid funding mechanism , the un ’s central emergency response fund . ten years on , what impact does the principles have for displaced people ?
andrew carnegie , veblen ’s richest man at the era of veblen , was blunt in his own moral convictions . “ the man who quit the rich , ” is often quoted as saying , “ let ’s dies disgraced . ” we can adapt that the judgment of a man or a woman holding a $ 30,000 watch , or buy similar luxury goods , like a $ 12,000 drinking bag . wearing a watch that cost 200 times as much as one who does a better job of staying time says something else , even while posting people out of governing a relatively poor country . basically , such a person says ; “ “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or merely plain selfish .
but then so do every other response that has been suggested since parfit revived the problem , and other philosophers started offering solutions to them . in this monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit raises the notion that it is nearly universally anticipated by economists , and by many philosophers from david hume onward , that reason ’s role is to tell us how to get “ what we want ” – but not to tell us what to do . on the other hand , parfit argued ; desires can be irrational . he shows that both “ total ” and “ mediocre ” implications have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . if reasons and humans could easily have held three discrete books , on what matters really are : the first two volumes followed in 2011 , while a third , in the press when parfit died , had only just emerged .
seeking mental health care should be as routine and unspectacular as it is seeking treatment for high blood pressure , a diabetes , or a heart condition . furthermore , we must drop mental-health inequity , a largely ignored issue . this is often a problem in lower-income communities , where populations can be at a higher risk of pathology , and frequently confront the highest barriers to getting care , partly owing to the lack of specialized resources that are available in wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to tackling this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s friendship bench to look forward to learning more about this project from one of its representatives in davos . by acknowledging the mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , in schools and communities alike .
experts argue that the likelihood of a terrorist attack due to a dubai takeover is small . the american public understands this , even though their president does not . because of that , americans can not afford even minutely test of their chances with their us ports , the consequences of error becomes too staggering to contemplate . there is a small problem should the harm inflicted by a terrorist attack . but the damage inflicted on an attack by an attack might be modest , for ports are thought to be one of the few possible ways in which terrorists might conceal nuclear weapons into america .
but four political developments that have modified the international security agenda continue to turn chicago into a high-profile summit in his own right . first , revolutions in the arab world , as well as nato ’s military intervention in libya , have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have immense repercussions on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing american defense secretary robert gates revived the debate on transatlantic burden-sharing and national solidarity within the alliance . finally , poland ’s first nato summit , to be held in the united states in 13 years , is occurring not just in an election year , but also with president barack obama ’s hometown .
yet the smallholders can not be ignored when it comes to a climate-change solution : the world ’s half-billion smallholder farms account for 60 % of all global agriculture production and provide up to 80 % of all food supplies in developing countries . collectively , they manage vast areas of our planet , including around 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on these farmers , young people in desperately poor countries , to assume a leadership role in meeting these twin food security challenges and ecological sustainability ? can they really make more food while also conserving their natural environment ? we believe that the answer to the two questions is a resounding saying .
one such reform , in particular , would be to expand access to foreign investment . this prohibition , while beneficial for industrial insiders , has reduced russia ’s access to financial markets , and , more critical , is the new technologies following the operation of financial flows . over the past decade , more than 40 industrial countries have barred foreigners from making investment in more than 40 industries designated – critical for their government ’s national security ” . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as has the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a spate of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright prohibitions on food imports from both the european union and american countries . lifting these limitations would not only give the economy an immediate boost ; it would also boost long-run gdp growth .
but the uk ’s support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to accede to the eu ’s long-announced objective of “ ever-closer union ” that entails political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty , made no secret of their desire to use widening eu membership to avoid deepening european integration . the cee countries ’ relationship with the united kingdom and the united kingdom has always been rather fraught . during the brexit negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the eu , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clause when it comes to the eu ’s decision to move toward ever-closer union . should he prevail in the referendum and persuade electorates to remain in the eu , it sends a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe . the 1990s were a proponent of eu membership for denmark countries at a time when leaders in france and germany remained extremely hesitant about eu enlargement .
business majors should study economic and political history to avoid becoming a blind determinists . economists need to learn from engineering students because their future workforces will be engineers . and law students should focus on the crossroads of big data and human rights to gain the insight required to protect people from forces that may try to turn individuals into disposable districts . and workers in the future will require training in their ethics , helping them navigate a world in which human beings ’ value can no longer be taken for granted . educators preparing students for this future will have to start now .
in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with writers and manufacturers themselves . sporadic complaints and alerts from above allow them to develop a counterintuitive sense for boundaries of acceptable content , so they generate a show that is free from offending material from the outset . a top-down hierarchy is both autocratic and arbitrary ; the lower level has little collaborative input , and a lack of right of appeals . serious breaches can result in reprimands or dismissive of projects . in effect , the system has become mostly self-regulating .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s decision to expand the diet ’s current session for 95 days , until 9/11 , made for his longest sustained meeting in japan ’s parliament in command . but the summit showed japan no longer intends to rise up on the diplomatic sidelines . the reason is obvious : abe is determined to pass a set of national-security bills permitting the reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution that enables the country to play a greater role not just in advancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s moves within the diet come in the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he broke with japanese tradition . for the last 39 years , japanese deputies to the g-7 were clamoring for economic discussion at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , and to recommend action , or , more often , inaction .
in february 1996 , kohl urged nato to place eu enlargement to hold up until russian and american presidential elections passed . he instructed ministers not to debate the matter publicly , suggesting that " the talks will not be left in the hands of nato machinery alone . " in germany 's parliament , chancellor after his operation announced that yeltsin would " renew the necessary dialogue and deal more urgently on specific issues , such as nato 's eu enlargement … and i was able . " in order to underline that upon his focus , chancellor kohl 's first foreign-policy activity after he returned from his summer vacations was a visit in early remission , to the ailing boris yeltsin , with which kohl had friendly relations . this visit yielded another invitation not to rush into nato 's enlargement . in june 1996 , kohl announced that nato member states " should not rush nato enlargement . "
the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values , which implies a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and personal accountability . only this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , the durability of vital organs , and a chronic disease . yet , as with any change of this magnitude , holdouts do not exist . these changes are also triggering the changes in how human consciousness takes hold . in this a world without utopia , individual freedom is a supreme value .
london – the severity of europe ’s crisis has , at long last , sunk in . governments and international financial institutions had scrambled to inject solutions within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . now , eurozone leaders must aim to preserve not just the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . many questions have yet to answer the design ; implementation will be at least as challenging . at the same time , the stakes could not be higher .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . washington , dc , while much of the developed world is worrying about the myriad privacy outrages at big tech ’s hands and demanding – and securing – for individuals a “ right to be forgotten , ” ” ” ” many around the world are posing a very different question : what about the right to be viewed ?
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico . the swiss federal office of public-health assistance ( swiss ) has also overseen an experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependency for significant periods . health professionals took the lead in campaigning to press the government – through direct democracy mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users ’ pursuit of public-health policies , which range from applying scientific evidence to which works . in addition , the swiss federal public-health office ( enp ) has overseen an experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependency for significant periods . the swiss have implemented methadone schemes and , in order to help prevent hiv spread , have created needle exchanges , including in prisons , to establish safe injection rooms across large lines .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial-intelligence will have on the functioning of our economies and labor markets was a hot topic for quite some time . but jerry kaplan ’s own recent book humans need not apply : the guide to wealth , and work in an age of artificial intelligence , has caught me on the true greatness of socioeconomic stakes . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s workings has the capacity to earn enormous returns in high-speed trading by being a micro second “ ahead ” of everyone else . another is the capacity for price discrimination by new electronic market makers like uber , which are fit every penny of the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . soon a new species of enhanced uber could emerge , integrating cars , bus , ships , airplane travel , and hotel rooms in one super-app .
in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating the required from the desirable . with an increasing share of the world ’s population – including many equally people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and afterward , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protections , water supply , and health may not become more important . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vital . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safety , readily available fresh water at home , and more than twice that number in france , a whopping $ 4.5 billion in unsafe sanitation , severely underserved health outcomes , and fueling water-pollution . global health and conservation professionals must cooperate more closely to identify those solutions , and to persuade policymakers to pursue them .
this has been an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than on electricity storage . indeed , large corporations in nearly every field are vulnerable as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and competent , like larger firms , to reach customers and users everywhere . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at the least technology-savvy , and continually evaluate how innovations will affect the status quo specifically , their for-profit pools . firms in every sector of the industry need to invest in understanding new technologies so that they are ready to seize opportunities , or mount efficient defense swiftly . moreover , disruptive technologies will create value for shifting across the economy ’s industries as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and able , like larger firms , to reach customers and users everywhere .
the task amounts to this generation is the greatest opportunity to translate high-level aspirations into concrete goals . over the last 22 years , the world has managed nearly two billion more people with an adequate presence – no small feat . as of 2013 , the proportion fell to 13.5 % by 2013 . over the same period , though the developing world has an estimated 1.7 billion more people than it had in 1991 , 209 million fewer are starving . over the last year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global targets to meet the sdgs by 2030 .
fifteen people have been killed , and many more have been injured in what is remembered as the peterson massacre . in light of the recent memoir in the french revolution , the british elite grudgingly agreed to democratizing reforms . ultimately , the 1832 reform act abolished the rotten boroughs and extended the franchise on a new middle class ( the working class and women will have to wait around ) . at the same time , the united states went along with a period of robin hood industrialization in 1870 and 1880 in chile . the pattern of greed and corruption is satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book a gilded age : the narrative of history .
but , thanks to farage – and the faragism that has taken over the governing conservative party – an act of economic self-harm that clearly runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . narrow-minded nationalism is n’t simply a brazilian malady : across the west , much of the public viewed by globalization as leaderless , lacking an backing of a people ’s face , and akin to an uncontrollable , runaway train . whereas the defeat remain side has waged an economic campaign , centered on fears of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave party has waged a collective war by exaggerating fears about immigration , and by affirming the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ” moderate leaders everywhere must now react not just to the economic discontent of the millions who are fading , but also to cultural pessimism , and politicians ’ dismissal of politicians as being “ locked in it alone ” that giving succor , if not more , populist nationalism backed by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . what makes things so worse in britain instead is a series of gross flaws in the political verdict during and after the 2016 referendum campaign .
ande has proposed the creation of a new court by amending the un constitution . a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many are contradictory and overlapping . the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflict and duplicitous behavior . it has been successful because of strong public support for tackling corruption , so it has been addressed . any firm and business association must decide on the best strategies and tactics to pursue within their country .
in evicting that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism ended . how , then , was ukraine to achieve this state of cynicism about itself ? a year ago , everybody gathered in kyiv in the streets of kyiv knew what we stood up to – a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor and to dispose of state assets to its will . in the way that formal legal rights had existed , there was no court of law that could be relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their interests as being challenged . instead , those who benefited from the regime were throwing corruptions insist that their right to assets that they had stolen were not violated .
for the children who received atole , the risks of stunting fell by more than one-half . for the children who received atole , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half . one community was provided with continuous access to micronutrient and protein supplement called atole . another community nearby was given the same program , except that micronutrient provision was provided without protein . they remained in school longer , taught more , scored higher on cognitive exams in adulthood , and became more likely to become employed in higher-paid , skilled jobs .
as of the day one , the coalition was riven by feuds . the ministers were behaving like adversaries rather than partners . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power . rather than blaming iliescu for their shambles in whom he left poland , the coalition members blamed on each other . such squabbling appear to be postcommunist malady .
the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest macron ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not by utopia but through desperation . whereas the british have resorted to the ballot box , the french have adopted a mix of barricades , marches and stone up . whereas the british have resorted to the ballot box , the french have adopted a mix of barricades , marches and stone throwing . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not in contrast to the french brexit referendum , in which it amounts to the act of firing oneself in a foot-dragging . they have been joined by a well-organized trade union that has helped the movement reach a critical mass , at least temporarily .
she feels that in acting as she has self-true to her most cherished values and convictions . and she has little doubt that the west , responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , has avoided a replay of srebrenica in northern africa . what strikes me on the most is that it sees , perhaps even then , beginnings in tribal conflicts , and the coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist appeasement . this is what strikes me to see , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts , and the coming contest among the islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist appeasement . it is troubling for premature human-rights violations , especially of women ’s rights , that she fears will multiply .
indeed , despite escalating geopolitical competition with america , it is china that is scrambling to win friends in the region . though china ’s charm offensive is extremely recent , its contours are already clear . as the world ’s largest trading partner of a number of asian countries , china will offer attractive trade terms to its neighbors , much the way that singapore does . during the past six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , adopting a eu containment strategy . the most prominent feature is trade .
london – “ shorting ” ” is a well known tactic among the finance cognoscenti . i – “ shorting ” ” ” is a well known tactic among the finance cognoscenti . it means responding against an asset with borrowed money in the expectation of making a profit when its value goes down . a speculator can “ take a short time ” of the government by borrowing its debt at its current price in the hope of selling it later , at a lower price and pocketing the difference . i borrow , it is in face value , with € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 from goldman sachs for six months . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , my view is of myself that the game should come up for the greeks soon .
jordan ’s diverse tribal composition was reflected in newly established web sites , some of which arose with tacit backing , and even funding – from security agencies or other official or political groups . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” by online news media , demanding that the government establish a regulatory framework for such unruly new sectors . indeed , a deficiency of constraints has allowed for dubious journalistic practices to flourish . taking advantage of the news media ’s implicit authority , they have published any potentially damaging rumor about individuals or groups with means and influence , then offering to remove a narrative in exchange for a paid advertisement , or outright cash payment . furthermore , many people are launching news web sites exclusively for financial gain .
the poison of the terrorist attacks has now ripped into the un ’s humanitarian work with the tragic bombing in iraq ’s headquarters . yet the bombing raises political questions that are demanding responses . other leaders declared that the un should not abandon its mission . dozens of innocent people were killed , including one of the best-accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush has re-stated his determination to wage a war on terrorism .
but they are really illegal occupiers because their decision to surrender russian passports to these regions ’ residents attests . to the extent that the majority of citizens in abkhazia and south ossetia have already given russian citizenship , the eu ’s recognition of these two regions of their sovereignty would be totally fictitious , and indeed an interim measure on the path to their full-fledged annexation by russia . to enhance russia ’s political influence over georgian ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without taking the trouble to demand permission from georgian ’s democratically elected leaders , has started constructing a gas-pipeline that connects russia and south ossetia directly . though not a break of gas shipments from tbilisi to south ossetia , that step is , in fact , necessary for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration of that georgian region into russia ’s economic system . now , russia threatens to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation .
the sad irony is that many of today ’s elites appear to have learned nothing away from history and come to think and act as though interests and values are totally disconnected from each other in the real world . so , long as trump is good for trade , they appear unconcerned that he represents the single greatest threat to america of its own psyche and values , of its image and its interests abroad . back then , german bankers and bosses are deluded to think that they can dominate their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they have been persuaded that , despite hitler ’s bizarre behavior and appearance , he remains the best safeguard against communism . to be sure , they say , trump might go some way forward with the chinese on trade , but at least he was asking them right questions .
online advertising gives eu citizens access to information , educational material , channels of commerce , and entertainment sites , without being paid directly , and the amount that are being spent on it in europe is rising fast . the eu ’s privacy crackdown is threatening to undermine all of this . in fact , the manufacturing sector has more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as europe ’s overall economy has stagnated . even more worryingly , this would open the door for packets of provisions outlawing the benign , low-risk data mining that is driving online advertising . not only will it produce administrative expenses through supplementing additional expenses and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many of europe ’s most highly prominent online companies .
a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda , for example , found that adolescent girls often miss out on school , owing to a lack of access to clean sanitary products . but , when re-usable sanitary pads and education about menstruation was given to girls in eight schools alone , attendance drives an average of 17 % of the global-health community must work together to address the menstrual needs of women and girls everywhere ; no unified solution to this global problem can be found . but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must break down , in order to enable women and girls to obtain sanitary products they are needed at an affordable price . after all , today , a good period donates cooking sanitary products , including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries , to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers each month . when programs are being developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic .
morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a decisive , if undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically motivated – step in to break the impasse . already , he backed off twice : once in july 2012 , when he abandoned his efforts , under pressure from the supreme council of prodding forces to reinstall an elected parliament ; and once he attempted to remove a public prosecutor by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the “ holy see . ” for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike off the law , rendering the effort meaningless . yet , for many revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack the tainted prosecutor and purifying the judiciary . for example , a new law regulating the judiciary was the revolution ’s demand for change since its early weeks .
moreover , it amounts to treason to its longstanding american commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . in foreign-policy terms , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed a revival of the monroe doctrine – reflected in his nineteenth-century statements about american primacy in the western hemisphere that aimed to keep out european competitors , in central and south america , in order to curb china ’s growing influence . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared southern border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine “ serves to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s ’s increased engagement is viewed as a counterweight to america ’s . likewise , the trump administration unveiled a new and more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear-posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear facilities that would deliver the submarine the equivalent of a nuclear bomb in us forces to those that devastated hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
in other emerging markets , too , a key challenge lies in ensuring that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . unless they are backed by strong institutional structures on all levels , such measures will demonstrate futile in managing capital inflows . alternatively , these institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective challenges related to macroeconomic-policy spillovers and in providing crisis-prevention insurance . policymakers in both the advanced and emerging-market countries alike should focus on underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than attempting to treat symptoms through the manipulation of monetary policy or capital controls . at the same time , a governance architecture of a multilateral institution like the international monetary fund must be reformed to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets .
while the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , american leaders have largely failed to recognize fully middle-class households ’ struggles , far less implementing effective countermeasures . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle classes stem largely from two factors : rapid white – and blue-collar , higher-productivity jobs from automation and shifting middle - and lower-value-added jobs to lower-labor-cost countries . the result has been outsize surplus labor conditions at the center – and lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar to surplus labor in the early-stage developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( after a period ) , even as the us economy expands . the latter pattern of depressed income and wage growth not only in the tradable sector directly , but also in the non-tradable service sectors , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . declining bargaining power resources and falling real minimum wages may have also have contributed to income polarization , albeit with these arguably secondary factors as well .
zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming leadership change at an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s governing managing director since 2011 – appears likely to succeed mario draghi as president today offers an important opportunity to heed that call . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could drive additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
for decades , europe constituted the world ’s most prosperous , stable , and predictable region , a place where history seemed all but to end . but a dramatic change came about in europe . the goal of making a continent peaceful , inclusive , and free has been largely realized . a look at one factor is the willingness and ability demonstrated by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda . such scenarios were unimaginable until the only time soon .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in the 2020 world will weigh on the status quo for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . batang toru is just one of many planned infrastructure projects globally that is officially deemed environmentally sound , despite posing serious environmental risks . construction , for example , is almost complete on a railroad line through kenya ’s renowned nairobi national park , despite public outrage over an “ incomplete and inept ” environmental impact assessment .
in many ways , those actions had succeeded : monetary expansion played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , the capacity of central banks to affect the real economy declined . today – and for the foreseeable future – domestic inflation is having an increasing impact on the global economy rather than on local governments , developments , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policies are far more influential than monetary policy alone . to the ecb , this generates an especially significant challenge . after all , unlike in other central banks , it has to account for the preferences of the fed ’s 19 sovereigns , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination .
beijing – is roughly 10 ° c hotter than nearby rural areas in the daytime and 5.5 ºc warmer at night . in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above the surrounding countryside , reaching the 40oc , a scorching heat that affected not only the downtown of the downtown , but that cover some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the fastest-growing urban population is in asia . to look at a fast-growing urban like houston , texas , we can see the real impact of a urban heat islam . there are an even more dramatic increase in tokyo .
a growing minority began to pursue vigorous physical activity not in fields or factories but out of leisure settings . the swedish brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – often conspicuous consumption . and as coworkers started to exercise themselves jointly , the enlightened employers first came to view such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental well-being . at the same time , gyms became new sources of community life , and were not involved when they were in a position of life . once again , some saw these changes happening and worry about them .
the eu ’s scheme for refugee relocation has proved particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared his intention to hold a referendum on proposed quotas . according to the european council on foreign relations , there are 32 referenda in 18 countries across the eu . some , such as the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to flee the eurozone , blocking the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or curtailing labor mobility .
but us exports are other nations with imports , so obama ’s an argument amounts to telling others that obama was losing their jobs . the big problem , then , is obama ’s inability to confront , and put to rest ; american labor unions ’ ’ fear-driven trade hostility . from the outset of his presidency , obama has been inadequate to defend the liberal trade regime . he has said repeatedly that us exports are good for the american people : they create jobs . he need reminding americans that imports are also a good thing : he can surely ask his audience to think of jobs in the ups planes of ups , freight trains , and the trucks carrying imports into the american far east .
this inspired the american way of life , where money invariably speaks . it found itself in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . it was now thought of healthily promethean to turn wealth into money and put it to work to make more money because of doing that one ’s benefit humanity . ending capitalism means simply ending the urge . usury ( making money out of money ) was an offense against god .
by driving users underground , criminalization is contributing to a widening public-health crisis . rather than focusing on treating treatments that work , the polish government chooses to give priority to longer-standing rehabilitation centers located in rural depths that little , if anything , does with evidence-based medicine . poland , too , chooses to treat possession of even the smallest volume of drugs as criminal , as evidence that some 60 % of people convicted for their drug possession in poland comes after marijuana smokers do . this pattern persists all over central and eastern europe , where governments have also chosen to imprison narcotics users . tackling drugs through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand ; but usage rates have failed to decline .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key interest rates have stayed near zero for at least six years now . the policy ’s unintended consequences are becoming more apparent , and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . crisis management has resulted in large market distortions , with some segments ’ performance no longer explainable through fundamental economic data . financial markets are flooded with liquidity as part of the currency .
within the indian ocean , nato works with the european union , and many others to police large-scale sea-lanes being threatened by pirates . the threats have changed and become more global . nato is developing its ballistic-missile defensive capability to guard our european populations and territory against an grave and growing threat . the alliance evolved into true security-management organizations that are flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . and in countries around the world , it performs tasks like de-mining , catastrophe relief , advising on how to bring military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children .
china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel companies has left it in a profound environmental hole , but its leaders seem determined to climb away from it . and , anticipating the eventual substitutes of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are issuing generous subsidies to domestic manufacturing . meanwhile , the trump administration is attempting to turn back the clock , by betting on the dying resuscitation of the – and lethal – fossil-fuel industry . describing the shift toward electric vehicles as a “ job killer , ” trump has advocated ending federal subsidies that encourage domestic development , manufacture , and purchase , like the $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit act . to encourage sales , homebuyers are tax-exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 per vehicle ) .
in addition , a tax would probably have regressive distributional consequences , hurting poor countries the most . the measure can also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , making the measure somewhat perilous . moreover , the measure of an appropriate tax equivalent would be extremely difficult in practice . moreover , the tax would probably have regressive distributional consequences , hurting poor countries the most . provided that it is indiscriminate , such border pricing would enhance global welfare and be compatible with world trade organization rules .
if all members of the eurozone participate , article 136 of the eu treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to support their action.the extent of that provision , arguing that , according to current european ] council … adopted post-brexit measures toward [ european ] member states , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and that “ only [ eu member states … take part in the voting ” – is far-reaching . moreover , article 138 would permit unified representation of the eurozone within the international monetary fund and the world bank . the group could then expand cooperation to three additional policy areas :
complicating matters further , both sides are basing their arguments on human rights . for example , some supporters of the ban have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which specifies that “ nobody is subjected to torturing or savage , inhuman , degrading treatment or punishment . ” gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ all have a right to believe in what they wish for do , ” but he insists that , “ children ’s rights come at the expense of the rights of their faith . ” and agnes m. ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center have countered that the prohibition would effectively turn judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” ” ” because any practicing circumcision could be subjected to six years in prison . for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center of iceland countered that when female circumcision is a part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s ’s ’s bill amounts to a contradiction [ religious freedom ] .
entanglement can alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little impact on a state like north korea , which is weakly linked to the global economy . to be sure , entering into any adversary ’s network and interrupting attacks poses the risk of escalation . but policy analysts can not restrict themselves from the classic instruments of nuclear deterrence , punishment , and denial , as they assess the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . and they should also pay attention to entanglement mechanisms and norms . nonetheless , “ steadfast engagement ” can while supporting deterrence in such difficult times .
more important , the eu needs to tie its economic strategies to its long-term competitiveness , which ultimately determines the value added in goods and services . here the eu summit in december was an important step forward in shaping political union and fostering governance among the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s member states . nevertheless , more will be required to restore financial stability , like enlarging the european financial stability facility ’s total firepower . moreover , if the eu wants the eu to emerge from its crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , without boosting growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s problems can not be solved . confirmation of a tougher , more rigorous stability pact is equally achievable .
shadow banking in china is dominated by higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . in 2007 , shadow-banking transactions in the us exceeded that of conventional banking assets . the financial stability board ( fsb ) estimated that total global shadow-banking assets amounted to $ 67 trillion in 2011 , with american accounts for $ 23 trillion , the us $ 22 trillion , the eurozone , and the united kingdom stand at $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion – 1 trillion dollars . ultimately , it is financed via retail bank deposits , banks of wealth-management products , and private-equity capital .
there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are several factors worth pondering : the increased number of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the conventional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurring lines between difficult allies and intransigent opponents ; and large political differences between a centrist american president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . clearly , the us can not do very much to resolve the conflict . but obama himself bears a large part of the blame as well . in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . in 2011 , he asserted that only the two parties ’ willingness to assure a successful outcome .
in the future , however , this type of trade is likely to become less significant . with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage is fast becoming more competitive . as economists like mit ’s david autor of mit have shown , the impact on this in the developed world may be both bad for some workers , and good for corporate profits . but it can be extraordinarily good for any developing country that has fosters a kind of fruitful equilibrium for inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and uses the proceeds of export-led growth to invest in infrastructure and skills . china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without labor-cost differentials .
beijing – just how quickly is china ’s population aging and what does a lower share of the working-age population mean for the country ’s economic development ? nowadays , most demographic projections for china are rooted in the country ’s overall gdp fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged over the next 20 years . but the population-survey data , published by the national bureau of statistics ( tfr ) , suggest that tfr has been less than 1.5 for many years ; and the united nations ’ just-concluded report , the world fertility patterns 2009 , are railing against china ’s tfr in 2006 , placing it among low fertility countries . a prolonged period of low fertility means that , as china ’s population ages , and working-age growth slows . can and should – anything to be done , especially for a country ’s “ one child ” policy – slowing this trend ?
until the currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . but they repeatedly missed their targets ; in many cases , they consistently missed their targets . following the monetarist approach failed , it did some sense to switched to target inflation . many then switched to inflation targeting ; but they tended to miss these targets even more frequently than advanced countries do . the problem with these monetary-policy targeting approaches is that while a particular numerical target might be sensible when it is established , successive unexpected developments often make the policy goal hard to live with .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone will have to develop sovereign-insolvency procedures as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from turning into creditors through debt mutualization . after all , if the european union ’s national governments want to help one another in the crisis , they should provide humanitarian aid unilaterally , free of conditionality , and without preemption . unless that wisdom is heeded , europe will be impossible together . in fact , the dangers facing europe today as a consequence of socializing debts far outweigh those posed by a mere potential financial crisis . lending to a friend will no longer be a friend .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians live in western europe ) . trump and his advisers evidently have drawn a great deal from orbán ’s treatment of racist immigration policies and how to undermine his democracy . they are not making america great , or even good , ; they are making it hungarian . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having undermined hungarian democracy ; on the contrary , trump recently welcomed him over the white house , describing him as “ respected everywhere over europe . ” trump ’s republican party , for its part , uses similar tactics .
whereas orbán has invoked economic pressure to bully the shutdowns of hungarian opposition media , trump has described the printing press as “ the people ’s enemy ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . making matters worse , orbán has demolished hungary ’s civil liberties and thoroughly politicized the justice administration . to be sure , trump is doing far the same , with an outcome that the american government now loses around 94 % of its regulatory court cases . by politicizing america ’s administrative agencies , beginning in may to capture the department of justice , and committing himself to ideological judicial appointments , trump is now a far cry from his quest to destroy the rule of law in america . at the same time , trump has wedged some 17,000 public officials by firing us state employees , shutting down his government , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open debate about how to formalize and executing policy .
but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article of which data were used and that there is no validation of any model . folta provides the brilliant send-up send-up by ayyadurai ’s work . “ when you evolved a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast munich ’s location , and the program told you are squarely in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , it does n’t mean that munich is up to the gulf of mexico , right away from florida . ” to decide not to challenge those data , folta continues and , rather than , say , deploying a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , hostile every other data , and claims by millions of rather dry germans , does not mean that you are brilliant . instead , what you do mean is that you ’ve made mistakes ; in your software , assumptions , or inputs – all of which are testable .
the sum of the headline commitment has been impressive , amounting to more than 20 % of gdp . yet , in the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state failed to consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled on a package of national measures to stabilize national banking systems on a 1 by one . in other words , what happened is that europe is facing a fundamental problem of collective-action . experience proved that only an acute crisis can force european leaders to take collective action .
both sides fought again in 1971 , although kashmir was not the focus . after the civil war pitting then-west pakistan against bengali freedom of then-east pakistan , fueled a surge in east central refugees , india began supporting rebel groups there . then came another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir in 1999 , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled kargil district . a 17-day war ensued , but a status quo prevailed . western pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state .
whereas pandemics seem suddenly , spread fast , raising tremendous fears about an impending threat , the tb has been spreading slowly but steadily for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . with the emergence of hiv in the 1980s , which stabilizes the immune system , tb re-emerged and is the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals . roughly 15 million people suffer from co-infection by hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , a primary causative agent in most tb cases . tb treatment requires a minimum of three drugs administered over at least six months . moreover , the tubercle bacillus engages in tb warfare , acquired resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity .
in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the treaty for a western defense organization . by 2005 , france had rejected a proposed european union constitution that could mark the beginning of a process of political unification . the disadvantages of strengthening europe ’s fiscal union further do not end there . continued progress toward fiscal union , ironically , would make political union even more unlikely for one simple but important reason : france . europe ’s strongest military power by far , indeed , france has thwarted all attempts at pooling europe ’s armed forces .
they know that their supervisor has powerful instruments at its disposal – for example , it can reduce borrowing costs , in order to protect the banks ( at least for a while ) – and in a strong interest in protecting its reputation . the limits of any inflation targeting are now obvious . now , central banks need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility , regardless of whether this is legally mandated – and minimize financial vulnerability – for reducing financial vulnerability . none of this will be easy , not least owing to another new operational strain embedded in many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision specifically implies the risk of political pressure ; interference with central banks ’ autonomy ; and political conflict , all of which could leverage financial intermediaries ’ behavior , by encouraging them to assume a greater risk .
depending on developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a very small number of large , productive firms . if small , unproductive firms closed and larger , more productive firms hired their workers , total output , and well-being would rise . judging by standard economic reasoning , that is inherently inefficient . this should occur automatically through the satisfying hand of competition , owing to the more productive firms that should be able to supply better-product jobs at a lower price and lay workers off higher wages . so , why is this happening routinely in the developing world ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the global attention received a spotlight on president jiang zemin ’s successor . but that is misguided , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation was the appointment of zhu rongji ( a pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as state council premier , a position once held by deng xiaoping . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , a tough-minded , longtime ceo of america ’s conglomerate general , a man celebrating his like his candor , his global sophistication and his insistence on performance . even before he became premier sir zhu as the china central bank ’s president at the time , it was known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and the mastermind of his successful struggle against inflation . given the apparent relevance of the post in recent years , the choice of mr. zhu ’s substitution may be of even more significance than president jiang ’s departure from center stage .
on the other hand , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , and their combined market capitalization has skyrocketed from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion in late 2009 ( 2 % of the world ’s total ) in late 2009 – as high as some of the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchanges . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stems in part from the successful “ demutualization ” of their stock exchanges . but , in part , as a result of a few african countries escaping the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors are focusing on business opportunities there . africa ’s combined gdp of the world ’s largest 11 bourses will have reached over $ 13 trillion by 2050 , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not in china or india ) .
establishing domestic , regional , and global norms is not an easy task . but the failure to devise mechanisms to enable migrants to abuse their skills creates an even greater harm . to do so , • accelerate the residency and citizenship eligibility eligibility eligibility requirements . at the same time , some countries are suffering as skilled workers emigrate . trained doctors should not be run by taxicabs .
in contrast to trump and the united kingdom ’s embrace of a “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to around one-fourth of the electorate . its old-left coalition of right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive by unproclaimed or defy expectations , as is happening in the us and the united kingdom . fillon , for his part , may well muster the same level of support , and he may even turn out to skim voters from le pen , given that about 8 % of the primary electorate was described by the national front ’s back . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to a number of french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . heading to the electoral campaign of fillon may , fillon will run on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during the second-round debates , when he indicated that he favors forming a european government .
for years , poles ranked owsiak as a country ’s biggest moral authority – ahead of the pope . with a population that is much of the time , kaczyński has repeatedly displayed his impulsiveness at will . he pursues power without considering the consequences of his moves on the ground . at the same time , the state-owned media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platforms as those of guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s killing will only undermine pis . generations of poles have been engaged in charities ’ fundraising drives .
new york -- the last fast-food hamburger you ate may have cost close to nothing for us . but what did the tomato slice this burger cost the worker who got it there ? almost anywhere in the world , including the united states , costs may be shockingly high . indeed , in florida , the tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . appalling wages are only the start .
whatever the new administration is touted as part of its ambitious effort to force the “ china dream ” to come true . xi has said very little about a “ china dream ” since , and his silence has created considerable hardship . when xi first unveiled his slogan after being chosen as the ccp ’s new secretary for public affairs , he defined it in a simple , attainable , but nonetheless generic version : the “ china people ’s dream of living the same good life ” as all other people around the world . china ’s ardent propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not demonstrating sufficient loyalty and respect for the new party chief , were quick to hijacked the slogan ; the people ’s dream of replacing the “ china model ” in formal political branding . sadly , china propagandists , like censors , now have a perverse ability to discredit whatever they are trying to label .
indeed , they can not , for human experimentation is impossible . even in animals whose genes are more readily studied and far better understood , as in drosophila , the diminutive fruit fly , there is , no simple , one-to-one correspondence between a gene and behavioral trait . instead , a wide variety of genes influence each characteristic . the fruit fly genes are astonishingly similar to that of us -- as it is to those of most other entities . even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own .
gone are the days when strong esg performance was a nice shareholder bonus for investors . environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating , and corruption runs rampant , with cash coming from opaque sources that flow to cambodia ’s casinos , its banks , and the real-estate market . pension fiduciary and fund managers now insist that societies where they invest are operating in an ethical , transparent manner that minimize reputational risk . cambodia is currently being stripped of its natural resources – including timber , grisly , and sand – for private gain . investment decisions at emerging-market funds are thus increasingly being withdrawn with rigorous esg screenings , screenings that , following a decade of hun sen ’s hindu dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of being passing .
simply put , talk of “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s ’s ’s ’s economic and political fault lines , and there is no turning back . in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ national interests were aligned . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-german chancellor of the exchequer gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only as it delivered the practical utility of peace and prosperity to britain . ” while the british had been particularly open-minded about a nationalist character of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their domestic concerns . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through a joint army failed in 1954 , and emphasized that economic common ground was the key to european integration .
from basic values , something like the west . the us has found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” nations and organizations ; europe has found its new adversary , helping it integrate in the united states . quite a few in europe are defining the eu as an instrument for holding its own against the united states . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic , who believe in the values of the enlightenment and the constitution of liberty . they view even the euro as an arms against the dollar , rejoice when the euro is the ‘ strong ’ and the dollar is the ‘ weak ’ .
the majority of the pis , for its part , may hope for that some coalition of countries ( such as those ruled by the social democrats , such as those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states pick to avoid escalation of the conflict with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely be returning to polish domestic politics , where a ninth victory against the pis would be the punishments kaczyński deserves . perhaps he will replace widely criticized foreign minister viktor wolski , witold waszczczykowski . the most saryusselid can realistically hope for seems to be some form of government exercises in poland . he is simply kaczyński ’s “ useful morawiecki ” in an effort to score a political victory over the man representing the greatest threat the pis faces .
renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because doing it would open a pandora ’s ’s box of demands from everybody else . i can help not help but recall the situation at davos in 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . now , again , the eu is back to the iranian left . this time , however , it is hard to see a way out offering a second referendum . so the problem lies with iran .
yet , throughout the world , experiences suggest that it is a risky outlook for the us . and a weak economy means more likely than not , say , more bank losses . the problems are not limited to the us , either . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises . even were banks healthy , the process of deleveraging , and the associated loss of wealth all , implies that more likely than not , the economy will remain weak .
german policymakers continue to believe that the political and economic means for influence are more effective than the violence , implying further development of soft-power instruments , including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more “ networked , ” domestic and european foreign policies that account for the activity and potential contributions of non-state actors . but , while it has heightened its capacity to provide military forces for the un , neither nato , or eu operations have made clear that it does not view itself as a military superpower . for now , germany ’s top foreign-policy priorities seem to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which the immediate security risks are most likely to emanate . this would be a wise choice , one that would be needed .
if greece and other countries are to provide their citizens ’ health and prosperity in the next few decades to arrive , they will have to find ways to prevent current economic activity from rising an already unsustainable environmental burden . for this to happen , ecological means need to emerge as precious endowments to be managed wisely . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its biggest assets ; the reasons why more than 200 million tourists flooding to the region each year are feeding the region ’s economy . overusing its resources or even failing to manage them prudently , the region ’s economic strength is destined to inevitably saps with the region . to be sure , green-deficits countries can often fill part of the gap via global trade , if they can pay the necessary imports .
ms. park once pledged to provide working-class families ’ loans from elementary school to college years , whereas contending that local universities should be empowered to exercise greater autonomy . on the campaign trail , park ’s success will ultimately depend on the efficacy of her campaign further to define her own character along those lines . but she will have to outline a practical strategy for resolving south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , deteriorating educational performance , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . she favors engagement politics and the six-party talks , such as how to resolve nuclear hardship . come presidential election-day attacks in 2012 , with south korean voters choosing a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue .
revenue will consistently grow only if the tax base – which is , economics – grows . and that growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital . a fiscal compact like the one approved recently is a useful way to anchor expectations about future adjustment , but only if the new system is sufficiently flexible to be politically credible . and adjustment , in turn , must be wedded to a growth strategy . up-front gradualism , it must be the name of the game .
second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s own “ peer review process , ” suggested that the united states is cutting its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than projected – more than $ 400 billion in additional cuts a year later . more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its stance that severe fiscal consolidation will generate enough increases in private-sector confidence that spending by households and firms is more than offset by lower spending by governments . on balance , the imf believes that current fiscal plans will erode the us economy ’s economic growth . on one hand , the oecd has argued that cautioning governments not to consolidate too fast in a sluggish global recovery . for its part , america ’s major trading partners want america to grow and buy more of its exports .
for most people , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; it was rather , an everyday immersion in lies , in spiritual depravity , and in material corruption . this is why postcommunist societies are demonstrating no nobility or disinterestedness , which gravely contrasts with the west . i admit to it that i regard the heritage of communism with a history of more skepticism . indeed , totalitarian pressure was forming exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , the people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same of andrei sakharov and vaclav havel to defend their respective supreme values with reference , and upon the language of the language of the word .
when asked by the united nations nearly ten million people worldwide to list their own priorities , the un emphasized improved education and health care , fewer corruption , more jobs , and affordable food . at the same time , the world bank ’s climate focus is at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . under kim , bank propagated the simplistic notion that the fossil-fuel industry is always damaging , the supply of coal must be forbidden , and “ climate aid ” is a solution . in fact , global warming came about last out of 16 questions , most of which are being achieved . for the most part , the evidence clearly shows that direct policies alone are much more effective .
trump carries on about the paris agreement ’s supposed bias in india ’s favor , but fail to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are still 1.6 tons , just one-tenth the level of america . trump also bemoans american contributions to the green climate defense program ( and sneers in the name , for some reason ) . consider the most recent figures for 2014 by the international energy agency ’s 2016 energy statistics . world ’s co2 emissions from the energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per year of 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , while american emission growth stood at almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . so , as he complains , america has already dispensed with more than $ 1 billion without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is a contribution of $ 3.08 per american .
as one wag put it , “ we meet with the un , and it ’s us ! ” what hard power the un has to do has to plead and be borrowed from its member states . and when they can not agree on a course of action , it is hard for the organization to operate . sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” a un secretary general can wield the soft power of persuasion , but little hard economic or military might . true , un secretary general ban ki-moon can make speeches convening meetings and proposing actions , but his roles are more secretary general than general .
perhaps for this reason , there has been talks in astana , between russian and france ’s then-presidents , american secretary of state , and presidents from armenia and azerbaijan . otherwise , no amount of negotiation can possibly help to set a caucasus straight – powerfully underscoring a key restraint preventing both sides from trying again to reach a military solution . that prospect holds back both a great opportunity and a serious risk . a meeting of presidents is , after all , a ultimate negotiating forum , and it must take the lead in promoting a genuine , sustainable success . there is the rationale that no such meeting played out during the 20 years of conflict .
if the problem were simply a matter of gross breaches at the organization of american states ’ democratic charter convincingly , certified by oas secretary general luis almagro ’s mandate of a solution measured in a few months or years , one could consider the matter . but venezuela is not merely a political problem ; it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented scale . but its misrule ’s impact is such that venezuelans die out of starvation , the country ’s health-care system has collapsed , and violence and contagious diseases are now practically out of control . governments in both the americas and europe are finding themselves in rough , uncharted waters . true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally based on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party , general luis almagro , while ignoring an elected national assembly and forbidding opposition political parties .
similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts with twitter , along with his much older rajasthan and kerala ’s counterparts , ashok gehlot and oommen chandy opened facebook accounts as well . but the pace at which the political world tracks social media accelerated dramatically over the past year was recently revealed . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale adoption of twitter , modi ’s network allies include the party ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized supporters that has a prominent indian politicians from every party leapt . the day after being sworn in , like india ’s president , pranab mukherjee , announced his intention to open facebook account to receive and respond to public questions . chief minister of west bengal ’s mamata banerjee is running a popular and broad-read web site that the traditional media outlets mine daily .
related to this is the fact that nowadays , as economic development depends less on a particular country and more on the regional integration that can serve to avoid the damaging effects of those us-led financial speculations boosted by rapid globalization . after all , only such equal cooperation can secure a solid political foundation for integration . so , in its regions , we need to facilitate integration based on a comprehensive process of economic democratization : currency compatibility , freer trade , shared legal rules , and a lot of all a common willingness to fix rules of the game according to a region ’s ’s entire interests . but when agreeing to open regional economies to imports , the poor and developing countries must allow certain means to protect their new industries from them . so long as a country is so subordinated to an uncontrollable force of globalization , its future lies with foreign hands .
the type of mubarak regime ran was apparent for many years . is it fair to expect that egyptians would continue to pay for their earlier repression and impoverishment at mubarak ’s hand and his henchmen ? given that this money has clearly benefited mubarak but not his own people , should it not be mubarak , rather than his victims , who are held responsible for it ? a prudent lender was supposed to reflect on these facts when lending was needed . when egyptians rose to oppose mubarak in january , they confronted arms paying for borrowed money .
at a more depreciated conversion rate , which we would simply have an accelerating rate of wage inflation . claims of an alternative strategy must therefore be set at a somewhat lower level , say , by a pick-up exchange rate that might have been chosen to make east germany a lower-wage country . perhaps those are thought to be en vogue in korea as it thinks of a possible degree of unification , but even there will be hard to accomplish when the time comes . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would foresee the experiment ’s failure before embarking on it . even that has been a pipe dream ever since , faced with high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially relative to west germany .
new companies in the services sector – $ 3.6 million of which were started just last year – are generating incremental employment , thanks in part to a new streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . china ’s leaders should aim to speed up and build on these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . public investment is high enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not safe .
the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market . if europe is to face down the kremlin ’s aggression , it is crucial that poland and hungary adhere to those groups of fundamental values and principles . but it is also essential that the eu itself develop a more comprehensive mechanism for defending the rule of law within the union . it would have been unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june , provided poland remains mired in its constitutional crisis with the polish government ’s disregard for the rule of law and the view of a discredited international body . hungarians and the poles must remember that russian president vladimir putin is actively attempting to divide and weaken the eu and nato .
many fear , with a good cause , that fossil-fuel interests exploit solar geoengineering in order to oppose emissions cuts . yet that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering . at the same time , the overwhelming majority of those who are renegotiating solar geoengineering , or advocating for them to integrate climate-policy debates , support much stronger action to lower emissions . still , it is very likely that big fossil – from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions – will eventually use geoengineering discussion to block emissions restrictions . but that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suppress such interests .
to achieve that , the american people would have to subordinate their power to the goal of shaping the new order , much as it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 . national greatness for a world power always arises from its ability to shape the world . instead , america has succumbed to the temptations of unilateralism . if a great power forgets that , or loses its ability to act accordingly , it starts to decline . one almost tempted to think that america of a great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago , abandoned its own trojan horse for america , the poisoned gift of unilateralism .
that means engaging sino-us with african governments to devise how best to support national development agendas and diversification . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and a conference hosted by abu dhabi ’s national oil company to attend barkindo , as well as numerous african energy and oil-industry leaders suggest , is a perfect opportunity to initiate this process . the industrialized economies , for their part , must do more to support african petroleum industries , making sure that the detrimental effects of oil production are mitigated . working with other stakeholders , campaigners for sustainably and just transition can achieve something more , too : allowing carbon energy to have an effect on economies that have so far experienced only the damaging effects of twentieth-century oil-backed development . for such work strategies , however , it is the oil industry that needs to get on board .
economic development in gaza strip has been reduced under egyptian rule , and the region has suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the southern state of mandatory palestine to make it later that israel will become . the 1967 war has put in place all forms of mandatory palestine ( as has sinai and the golan ) under israeli military occupation . the palestinians ’ access to egypt has been restricted , and much of gaza ’s predominantly unskilled labor force has depended on a un relief works that have built and maintained local refugee camps . nevertheless , even though one-third of the west bank has been closed to the palestinians to make room for several thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its largely rural population have been refugees , many owned their land , and a job variety . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s inhabitants comprised refugees living under difficult conditions in scores in refugee camps , and have been overwhelmingly dependent on jobs in israel .
after world war ii , winston churchill asserted that history would treat him tenaciously , because “ i propose to write that history . ” when the financial crisis erupted , the same thought might have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , america ’s treasury secretary , chairman of the us federal reserve bank and chair of the new york fed , respectively . all three have published protracted memoirs explaining why they had done , and did n’t , do what they did and did n’t – unavoidably with the degree of self-justifications in each case . now , a decade later , the three are again co-authored what could best be described as 2.1 of that episode ’s history . a second proposition in history is frequently written by keynesians .
in this sense , east asia ’s economies have embraced a process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby economic structure is continually revolutionized from within . furthermore , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even incentivizing – replacing the old , inefficient sources of growth with fresh , more dynamic services , they have expedited this process . for example , in the 1980s , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms were spurred in part by growth in the non-agriculture sector , a result of policies focused on stimulating township and village enterprises . similarly , in the 1990s , as china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects in the early 1990s – the result of state-owned enterprises ’ sustained de-loss-making and over-leveraged real-estate investment , respectively – by implementing institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby negating soes ’ declining return to capital . the goal was not to fix the problems that they faced directly , but rather to induce new , efficient activities that would help shift debt into assets and maximize the use of an economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustice of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely blown off its interest flicker , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . this neglect is not only shortsighted ; it can also prove dangerous . similarly , much of the world is protesting in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . taiwan , by contrast , is not catching up on our attention because it is stable and prospering economically . this seeming double standard can be explained partly by a sense of guilt : the west has , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not stopping slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there .
during my 17-month experience as minister , i have become convinced that spads ’ excessive power and haughty approach are undermining the uk ’s highly excellent civil service , as well as elected and appointed ministers . perhaps ’s two leading spads , fiona hill , and nick timothy geithner have taken this danger to alarming levels . now , many are eagerly offering their views as to whether the uk should look anew on the “ norway model ’s ” of relations with the eu , or on some other regimes that maintains uk participation in the single market . whatever options it may take , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : reducing the powers bestowed on the uk on its non-elected special advisers , or on the sort of spads that have become dominant figures within all of government departments .
one would be naive to imagine that nanotechnology develops without the risks of our health and the environment . setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary outcomes suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risk that are less than or comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities . indeed , many of the ingredients that have been used to make nanomaterials are currently well known to introduce human health risks . while attempting to quell nanomal-inspired developments would be as irresponsible as they are unrealistic , susceptible to these technologies ’ vigilance and personal social commitment . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production .
today , nearly 4.5 billion people have internet access , and around one in three internet users are under age 18 . would-be traffickers need only a laptop or a smartphone with a high-speed internet connection to go into business . as a result , the unregulated online world has fertile ground to reaping tremendous gains from child sex trafficking . globally , human trafficking generates average annual profits of $ 150 billion , of which $ two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) comes from forced sex exploitation . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening the prevalence of child sex trafficking in order to make users more lucrative , coordinated action to tackle this appalling crime .
and it should come as no surprise that markets tested european political leaders ’ willingness to stay silent where monetary affairs are concerned . recent us intervention and support from america and japan showed that europe is here to stay , and that markets believe in its success . all of this is what we owe all of us to it . to see why , europe has experienced a hard but promising start . it should come as no surprise that the euro began a landslide against the dollar as a reflection of the divergence in economic performance between america and europe .
now that internet fever has been hollowed out , we tend to hear that the “ fundamentals ” are reasserting itself . but this view is as much a tangle of truth as the prior notion that a boom would last forever because the internet economy was created by new fundamentals . what should now be clear is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given . indeed , the boom/bust cycle brings into question prevailing economic theories about financial markets . people were learned that it paid a price in buying dips ; they were n’t weaned off habit until it ceased to pay .
palo alto – since the advent of a sixth-century science of toxicology , its guiding principle has been that , “ the dose makes the poison ” . it is a rule that applies to medicines used by patients worldwide numerous billions of times per day . a therapeutic godin might be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much can be lethal . principle even applies to foods : large quantities of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic . it is the rule that applies to foods used to patients worldwide many billions of times daily .
given libya ’s lack of its democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome during the post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country attempting to shift from dictatorship to democracy , with weak institutions and strong tribal identity . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully gone through more complicated trials , offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . a fourth scenario is partition , with an ancient three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( eastern ) , fezzan ( south ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( the west ) . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free ; tripolitania is not ; and fezzan has not fully joined the revolution .
giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may require too big a stimulus . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also highlight a critical question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? they are proposing tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in every eurozone country , financed by very long-term public debt – all of which the ecb is supposed to buy . the bank of england put qe into effect as a purely monetary-policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of needed and desirable fiscal consolidation .
and , not surprisingly , the tone of political debate has become much nastier . confrontation and brinkmanship has become the new watchwords of american politics , even when america 's government does the legal skills to pay out its debt are on the line due to the tea party 's rigidities . standard & poor 's - & p assessments of the political situation are on the agenda : to produce a dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of the government , the tea party has proved willing to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy , and to ensure a significantly slower pace of growth . standard & poor 's has received some justification for a analysis behind its recent downgrading of american government debt ; after all , there is little economic news that the move could explain the timing altogether . never mind that recent eye-popping growth projections by representative paul ryan 's budget plan , for example , are wholly implausible ; such projections matter politically , because without them full sting ryan 's proposed medicare cuts would readily be apparent .
trump , for his part , accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . the understanding between xi and trump reflected a sobering acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries are facing . both seem to have recognized the need for a stable us-china relationship to allow them to concentrate on their respective challenges . on trade , trump and xi agreed on 100-day plan for discussions to reduce america ’s trade deficit with china . moreover , the us embraced china ’s proposal to revamp a framework for bilateral engagement by establishing a us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four subdialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement and cybersecurity , and social and cultural issues .
against this backdrop , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , say , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , while no doubt important , should not take priority over a strategy to address sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy needs to center on federalism . the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service to adult males . and kuwait is contemplating following in jordan ’s footsteps by reintroducing conscription , already in the majority of sunni arab states ( and iran ) . had federalism in somalia been introduced , for example , when a north-south rift reemerged , it probably would not have ended as failed states .
the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds a widespread yearning for jewish roots , deep-seated fear of the arabs , and an uncompromising fear of a “ world , ” ” ” ” with the so-called international community with which jews share a centuries-old disagreement . the left ’s yearning for peace is viewed as naïve , if not exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . the left has failed to recognize that israeli elections do not rigidly political matters ; they are an expression of the ongoing kulturkampf within the ethnically kaleidoscopic society . israeli elections come in some form a tribal affair ; people vote on the basis of memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fear-mongering and complexes of a wide array of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers .
moreover , among the new jobs that mgi will develop will be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . indeed , it is not yet clear precisely how automation will affect women ’s employment level . but there can be little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s health and income prospects will require upgrading their skills to take advantage of the new and changing opportunities generated by the ongoing digital revolution . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital technologies to a level playing field in economic roles , benefiting individual women , their communities , and societies , and the global economy . according to mgi ’s research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years as health-care and education needs grow .
indeed , russia ’s contacts with the muslim world go back to thousands of years , rooted in a tradition of tolerance . after loyalty was assured , however , in the government adopted a more pragmatic foreign policy . russia conquered muslim territories in the volte-ural region , caucasus and central asia , brutally suppressing any opposition . with a few unshort-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial government did not back orthodox evangelism . until the tudjman 19th century , sedentary muslim elites co-opted into an imperial aristocracy nearly existed in the 20 th century bc .
the trigger was the proposed extradition law , which many feared would extend the mainland ’s reach within hong kong ’s judicial system . the absence of any plan to join the various protest groups and the hong kong government has become a source of growing anxiety . first , it is necessary for all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . the absence of any plan for bringing together different protest groups and the hong kong government has become a source of growing worries . the absence of any plan for bringing together different protest groups and the hong kong government has become a source of growing concern .
to address this distortion head on and provide clarity about money allocation , the egf should aim to direct its scarce funds to two simple active labor-market program : wage insurance and mobility allowance . wage insurance could offer workers whose pay was slashed after displacement of compensation for up to two years old amounting to half the gap between old and new wages . the very simplicity of such a scheme is likely to ensure high visibility and reasonable rates of take-up . the mobility allowance could offer those moving for new work a lump-sum payment of two months of ’ gross pay in an previous job , or pay for cross-border moves four months . the downside of such a focused approach is also clear : the margin of choosing for eu members about how egf funds are to be spent in their home country would be minimal .
but kharas ’s projections indicate that asia accounts for a whopping two-thirds of the global middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia is displacing not just the west , but also other emerging regions . indeed , this is the real business opportunity . to be sure , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change that we should expect . asia ’s share has fallen to 28 % ( after that of japan ) , while it has reached that point .
populist parties , on both the far right and the far left , are regaining their electoral traction . some , like france ’s far-right national front , oppose their countries for eurozone membership ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration , particularly after the laborious efforts made to hold together the monetary union , and , with it , the european dream . such an outcome would be even more disheartening in the face of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and , after france marches in france and throughout the continent , rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity . yet the challenge that these new parties are playing to europe could prove to be exceedingly disruptive .
taken together , all of these weaknesses cast grave doubt on the eu ’s claim to be waging the debate over a fundamental re-reshaping of global economic governance . european governments have repeat the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but they seem to have no comprehensive strategy of translating this into a coherent policy vision . indeed , when europeans think in favor of reforming global governance , they limit themselves to the numbers of seats , as well as voting weights , in international entities . european governments are now only grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in a multilateral body , recognizing that it is undermining rather than enhancing the eu ’s overall influence by pushing other powers to separate arrangements . but , while deliberation does emerge on how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of a multilateral body , little vision is gained beyond that .
são paulo – a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s is approaching a conclusion . in december , lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify the settlements reached with the banks . if the court approves the deal , settlements would place billions of reals into savers ’ pockets . yet more than the long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark an official end for brazil ’s seemingly endless war on hyperinflation . it was during the late 1980s and early 1990s that the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s ’s ’s economy and currency .
one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less money for farm-related activities than they do men . nowadays , women dominate african agriculture ; the continent has a leading industrial sector . illiteracy , scarce land ownership , and limits on the agency and mobility all konspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing . for both countries , these barriers had a dramatic impact on social and economic progress . but this , too , has translated into greater government control .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . modi ’s government has tout a slew of new repressive legislation , including the criminalization of talaq-e-e-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” – as displaying resoluteness .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect , which has received little attention : lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , which cause relative declines in labor demand . this is very likely to exacerbate the unemployment problem ; almost certainly it does not mitigate it . one solution is to channel a portion of the liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . for every $ 100 of new liquidity , an extra $ 60 of new liquidity could be used to purchase assets and the remainder to give firms discretionary job-creation subsidies , which could be particularly efficient in economies with flexible labor markets that allow short-term hiring . even if an employment subsidy were offered just for , say , , a year later , firms would be tempted to use more labor .
and it has much in common with nagoya-kuala lumpur complementary protocol on accountability and redress to the protocol of cartagena , yet another anti-genetic-engineering screed that accomplishes little except the frighten potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that the experience of countries implementing the treaty was not especially positive , so long as those countries retain a high tolerance for their bureaucratic regulatory regimes , which stifle innovative and evolutionary aspirations in the name of lofty aspirations . the seed treaty is carving out the same “ anti-capitalist , ” anti-science , anti-cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is overwrought , perplexing , and complex – in the short term , inimical to innovations that could benefit the global commons . it also mirrors a flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering protocol on biosafety to the cbd .
“ there ’s a , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s debates on globalization , “ a sure situation of capitalistically disorganized economies , in which higher-cultures are nowhere to be victorious but rather lost in an existential struggle with lower-cultures . ” when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did during the interwar period – the anti-international right moved toward fascism , the left toward communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . rather than a pair of divides between the left and the right , a triple divide has emerged , between anti-globalization conservatives and pro-globalization liberals and re-distributionist leftists . for much of the post-1945 era , such divisions vanished as right and left fighting battles over redistribution within national economies . at the center – brushed aside by the counterglobal reactions of the left and right – a liberal commercial elite saw the products of economic opening , or price globalization as wholly beneficial .
the materials included in that book , which i brought out of china and decided to make the public , consist of hundreds of documents , including the minutes and transcripts of meetings at which people ’s most important leaders deliberated on how to handle tiananmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; classified reports from security agencies ; and dispatches from the police and military . taken as a whole , these documents provide rare glimpses of china ’s leaders . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is proverbial . but the veil that exists over how omnipotent party makes important decisions is jettisoned somewhat because a volume of unparalleled materials about behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen square massacre of 1989 is on display this month . as a witness and participant in the tiananmen events and as someone with a access to a historical archive , i sensed my responsibility to publicize that record of decisions that lay behind what went wrong .
in the 1970 ’s , for example , slovakia , like other communist states , was a dreary , repressive , joyless place , where mediocre party hacks set the tone and creativity was stifled under the blanket of enforced conformism . rock and roll was viewed as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . recordings by rolling stones and other western groups were banned in some form . a local rock band named plastic humans of a universe that was performing in english , was arrested in the late 1970s for “ organized peace disturbance . ” and yet records were smuggled into slovakia and other east european countries , where they were treasured by young rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become poland ’s president .
there is , of course , an appealing logic to saying that governments should need to balance their budgets on a just like that of the rest of us ; unfortunately , things are not that simple . debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of an amicable “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . governments typically have myriad ongoing spending commitments related to basic services , such as national defense , infrastructure projects , education and health care , not to mention pensioners . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece are facing massive social and economic displacement when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows abruptly dry up . nor can a government simply walk away from such responsibilities overnight .
president hosni mubarak of egypt claims that the shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan coined the axiom about a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ the rise of shiite groups ” and the resulting “ sunni shia divide ” is alleged to form an ever widening chasm across the region . while that perception may be persuasive at first glance , it ultimately derives from generalizations from generalizations that expose more about its respective advocates than from the actual reality of the ground . ironically , this perception is adding to israel , some rather unlikely partners . take in iraq , where that perception ’s looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for a lot of chaos .
making matters worse , the consultancy wood mackenzie finds that a renewables boom translated into only 2 % of global energy demand . moving away from fossil fuels fully fully will require drilling down the backbone of the global economy . firms can not keep up with oil , natural gas , and internal-combustion engines while moving gradually to cleaner technologies ; they need a clean break . it does n’t help that china ’s financial institutions funneled at least $ 1 billion into “ green ” green ” financing to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . as matters stand , it is possible that coal , oil , and gas could still supply 85 % of their primary energy capacity by 2040 – down only slightly from about 90 % today .
likewise , with us backing , colombia ’s armed forces have become more powerful , owing to the modernization of military installations and doctrine , increased numbers of soldiers , and improved training . as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly costly to rebel forces . the agenda will center on ending the conflict , with no endless debate about theoretical or doctrinaire questions . in addition , with us support , colombia ’s armed forces have become more powerful , owing to the modernization of military installations and doctrine , increased numbers of soldiers , and improved training . as a result , the farc is unlikely to stage a media spotlight on the rebels ’ plight .
the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact because it does not deliver trade relations to china and other major american partners . yes , this is a volatile data series because it both effects and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area , where obama has set a bar high during his two terms . the most positive one can say about trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is that he has failed to deliver on his campaign promises to disrupt trade . the administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those are small relative to the size of the us economy .
perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories have receded as well . but southeast asians are not immune from this type of nonsense . all of those books downplay the protocols of the elders of zion , a russian forgery first published in 1903 , which japanese came across after defeating the czar ’s army in 1905 . the chinese chose many modern western notions of the japanese . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , said , “ jews govern the world by a proxy . ” perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories pass on as well .
they will have to answer to a strong european parliament , not to mention the eu . they will need not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . they oppose anything that smacks of european political integration . german chancellor angela merkel ’s own constituents are fond of bailouts , for they know that it is up to bailing out bailing out bailing out the eu . those running a powerful emergency funding mechanism will then need to be strongly accountable .
new york – striving to revitalize the world economy , while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis , has raised a knotty question : are statistics giving us the right to do what should be done ? when we have poor measures , which we strive to do ( say , increase gdp ) in real terms may actually help worsening living standards . we may also be confronted with false choices , seeing trade-offs between output and ecological preservation that do not happen . better measures of economic performance , on the other hand , might show that the steps taken to improve the environment are good for our economy . in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on an increasing scale : what we measure affects what we do .
bangkok – a friend recently asked the seemingly naive question : “ what ’s money ? ” we learn in introductory economics that money is the centerpiece of the exchange rate . banknotes are mere intrusions of paper with many strings attached . but why are we to accept that way ? how do i know that i can believe that it is worthwhile ?
with the refugee crisis turning schengen into an existential threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity , and to its national governments ’ capacity to maintain order and the rule of law , that time is now . when it was first created in 1985 , schengen included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) . its membership has since ballooned to include the eu ’s 22 of the 28 member countries – with four of those left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . to be sure , the notion of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic importance and appeal . but , at times , even sacred cows are needed to be slaughtered .
even he has no interest in the reinforcing power of his kremlin aides . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick with their sphere of activities and drop politics to it . likewise , he realizes that big business is crucially important to russian modernization . no doubt , putin is now likely to behave like the peacemaker . but the issue will not go away , either .
the risk now is that political insecurity in germany , france , greece , spain , and the uk will create an opening of populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more own walls ( physically , as in metaphorically ) , and mobilize the ghosts of us nationalism . should he really wake up one morning , deciding to impose heavy import tariffs on european cars , things could eventually get nasty , very fast . moreover , europeans , ’s external environment , have become more and more dangerous , to say the least . trump seems genuinely convinced that german cars on the streets of new york pose a threat to american national security . though the world ’s attention currently is fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored .
indeed , more competitive pressures may enhance the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , making investors more prone to panics . the result , in turn , will create more incentives to assume the risk . it may also erode the charter value of the institution as a whole . there is a trade-off between the relationship between competition and stability . a bank with thin margin and limited liability does not have much to lose and will tend to gamble , a trend that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies .
the vast majority live in poor , remote communities that still lack access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . indeed , vaccines have already eradicated smallpox and have dramatically lowered child deaths and diseases linked to measles , diphtheria , and tetanus . yet , the sad thing is that a child still die every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia that a vaccine could be prevented . fortunately , the world is taking action now . this is one of the reasons why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a low-income country to die before reaching the age of five .
and because the child believes that everyone operates under his special definitions of the right and wrong kind , he can not seem able to comprehend that someone else can see things differently . as the pioneering physician jean piaget showed , chileans in the early stages of development go through a kind of glacial phase : they are naturally focusing their own needs and do little to think about the rules . a child may snatch of another child ’s playthings , crack it and then deny having done that . rather than confess to breaking the rules , they lie in reconciling the inconsistency . to the infant mind , he is not out of the wrong ; the world simply is misinformed .
its greatest shortcoming is its inadequate roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is just stunning . indeed , over the last five years , china has multiplied its interstate highway system five-fold . when your products can not truly conquer the global economy , you can not conquer it . it is this divide , more than anything else , that sets the two economies apart . so , what can india do to close the gap ?
in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians make willing prey to those who feel ignored . but , because those politicians are so appealing to so many as to be many , no less than easily swayed voters must scrutinize it . the question is whether the brand of politics that threatens liberal democracy , at the same time , can be reconfigured to rescue it . there are two kinds of populists nowadays : exploitative and enlightened . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist experiment , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public debate .
across industries , a sluggish demand recovery following a financial crisis has been the key to keeping investment back in line . the crisis has intensified uncertainty over the future course of the future course in consumer and investment demand . the final feature that reside in this period of historically sluggish productivity growth is weak demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that the economy is critical for demand that is critical to investment . for example , mgi ’s surveys conducted last year found that 47 % of firms increase their investment budgets , owing to increased demand or demand for expectations .
yet the facts have taken a beating . here is a country that has long cherished its own “ exceptionalism ” from ordinary rules on market economics , foggy that rejects both central planning and free markets , and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . the french do not care that they have never been able to articulate their vision of a “ third way , ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a crucial role to play in steering markets toward defending the kind of “ higher ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , propagated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do n’t even bother understanding how markets operate . they look to economics as an ideological battleground , where every view could entertained without being confronted with some logic , much less with the facts .
while social security and medicare remain relevant to ensure retirement well-being , their role must be updated to suit today ’s needs . health care and social security already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to more than double as of 2040 . with no change in course likely to occur , programs that focus on low - and middle-income programs will shrink from the 2030s . avoiding this outcome will require american political leaders to constrain growth of entitlement spending and are encouraging middle-income support . for example , to ensure that nobody who has worked for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty ; social security requires a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less benefit over time .
new york -- president george w. bush was right to call pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections a triumph for [ its ] people . ” yet , even as he uttered those words , his administration worked behind the scenes to subvert the willingness of pakistan ’s ’s people by trying to dictate the composition of its next coalition government , and to prop up the election ’s biggest loser , president pervez musharraf . in the polls , millions of pakistanis delivered a clear message . bush collectively voted against musharraf and religious extremists , as well as in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance in favor of democracy . bush plays a threatening game , risking the collapse of pakistan as a result of its own legacy .
it mutates rapidly within an individual and among geographic locations , establishing latent reservoirs within the cells that enable it to emerge and replicate months , or even years later . in fact , three of hiv-positive people do not yet receive antiretroviral therapies ; people do not know how to do so . it evades the immune system , so the body ’s natural capacity to fight , or even clear it , is limited . moreover , long-term treatments are not the same thing as a cure , and no public-health tool ( in addition to clean drinking water ) has ever matched the chws of preventive power in the vaccine . as a result , hiv is an extraordinarily complex virus , but it continues to have the capacity of large parts of developing countries .
but it is useful to remember that the university was accused of subverting its own ideals and social roles from time immemorial , yet what in the past initially looked at many like a conflict of interests often appeared to be viewed as a confluence of purpose . similarly , the universities that employ them should leave product development to an existing set of firms . under this argument , academic scientists should either publish their research openly or abandon college in the face of their commercial interests . during the late 19 th century , for example , as american universities began to do with research at the heart of their academic credentials , they were accused of forsaking their traditional , pedagogical role on display . many professors argued that research demands would render their instruction impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis period , the european central bank ’s behavior has conditioned on the tension between what it can do and what it is allowed to do . the ecb is the only institution within the european union capable of providing unlimited financing to governments , yet its governing statute forbids government bailouts . nonetheless , the ecb has been lending massive amounts of liquidity to the financial system indirectly softening the pressure on government debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has bought government bonds worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) – secondary markets , according to its securities market program . moreover , it has been lending loans to the us banking sector , recently launching its three-year refinancing operation that has generated demand by eurozone banks for € 489 billion .
after all , when banks can not recognize their own balance sheets , it is not about trusting others en masse ; on the contrary , it was panicked . excessive , coupled with bad lending and risky derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze up . america ’s economy was supercharged by excessive leveraging ; now , comes the painful deleveraging process . the bush administration failed to see the problems coming , denied that they are problems when it came , then minimized its relevance , and , finally , panicked . america would be facing these problems before it was simultaneously facing a financial crisis .
aware of these benefits , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority on , improving inclusivity is already underway . for example , the government currently works to encourage instruction in more localized languages , with more than 100 spoken up in myanmar – an area of rural areas . vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that had transformed their education systems over a generation . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee kuan yew observed during our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time ; however , results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country in a knowledge-based economy .
in that case , pareto optimality is not a socially optimal thing at all . instead , policies that intensify competition , whether in trade , labor markets , or domestic production can become socially destructive and politically explosive . this highlights yet another reason for policy failures in economic policymaking since 2007 . so , what if market-driven fundamentalist politics explicitly forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that could compensate those who suffer from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? but what if compensation assumed by economists theoretically can not happen in practice ?
madrid – economic globalization , together with the rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has made developing countries and a lot of companies within them , core global economic actors . but cross-border investment flows from countries like brazil , india , and china are now flowing not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” perdi-exporting states of the world . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework for defending foreign investment . those changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime , and they should broaden the interest in developing a more effective , investor-protection framework . once upon a time , global foreign-direct investment has flowed out of just a handful of sources : traditionally the affluent states of europe , north america , and japan .
the worry now is that information technology is on the bend of a “ hockey stick ” curve , where it would suddenly take off at far greater speed than it did before . the resulting shifts will not all will be welcome in the economic terms of growth . worries about globalization and the computer revolution ultimately boil down to the same event , owing to the mostly new information technologies of the production process . computers and the internet have made it possible to transmit information almost costlessly to the world , and to do business across different cultures and continents . in the meantime , computers and the internet have made it possible to ship information almost costlessly , to do business across cultures and continents .
copenhagen – amid a growing chorus of concern about climate change , a number of countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members – passed laws in the 2000 ’s outlawing or severely protecting access to incandescent light bulbs . the republicans ’ current attempt in the american congress to roll back american efforts to ban incandescent bulbs has revived this debate . many contend that knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers are driving the agenda . the intent was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light light light light bulbs for energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ’s ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity – or about 1 % of our co2 emissions . but it is a worth taking a closer look at the statements that banning things is the smartest ways to address global warming .
for example , the inter-american development bank reports that trade bargains from latin america ’s 33 small-scale regional trade deals have been meager . a key to advancing those gains , under the iadb , is to embrace a new strategy that extends access across and within markets . this suggests that for the uk , the mega-regional deals that grant access to a variety of markets ; but entail a lower level of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu is the best way forward . after all , it is this an approach that would allow uk firms to position themselves in well-developed , integrated supply chains , serving a much larger market than the us , which would grant them access . for the uk , the key to boosting these gains , the iadb argues , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and within markets .
against this backdrop , one can evaluate current growth patterns in the global economy and its different pieces . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to the fiscal constraints of lower-income countries . growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on a loss of political and social cohesion , and that , ultimately , is on the loss of strategy support . on the other hand , income inequality , which is not too extreme and that does not emerge from corruption or underprivileged access to markets , is understood and accepted . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as critical to opportunity and intergenerational mobility .
for starters , it is important to recognize that the line needs a clear vision before extremist parties can even arise . one criterion that seems universally accepted is party ’s use , encouragement , or , at least , condoning violence , as was evidently the case in golden dawn ’s role in attacking migrants in athens . there is less consensus on parties that incite hatred and are committed to destroy core democratic principles , largely because many extremist parties in europe are going beyond their means to stress that they are not against democracy ; on the contrary , they fight for the “ people . ” as long as the rule of law is concerned , democratic self-defense can not seem ad or arbitrary . hence , the bans criteria should be rolled out in advance .
elected officials clearly need to find answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . to them , patriotism means being harder-directed about upholding the national interest and adopting more democratic policies that help the working masses rather than jet-setting fat cats . the other piece of this argument – that the interests of ordinary people have been subordinated to those of the elite – must be heard and responsive . a democracy in which the majority feels either neglected or exploited is not sustainable . either the government , or the entire system , will now be overturned .
so , on a globally trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to the currencies with which it competes . more important , wealth and consumption in china are closely related to real-estate values rather than equity values . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the us dollar was just 2.5 percentage points , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 , far below the double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . while official american figures show overall import price declines of 11 % in the 12 months through august , this is due almost entirely to lower us energy costs . even more relevant , the past year ’s fall in the renminbi and other currencies has had very little impact on american import prices , because the chinese and other exporters price their goods in us dollars and do n’t adjust when the exchange rate changes .
many developing countries spend a lot of time in a stable , no-growth equilibrium , and then a shift to even more positive potential . in all cases with which i am familiar , effective leadership has been a catalyst . so , while we can expect a multiyear process of rebalancing , closing the gap between actual or potential growth rates , exactly how long it will continue to depend on policy choices and the pace of structural adjustment . there is nothing automatic about this , either . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , because more poorly defined components of recovery exist in those countries .
but belarusian economic models can not survive , with a trade deficit forecast for over $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year alone . but a belarusian economic model can not survive , with its trade deficit forecast for exceed $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . finally , the eu should work to denounce belarus . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka ’s present isolation , which lays the groundwork for rapid development once he is gone . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely .
collectively , the n-11 comprises some $ 1.5 trillion of people , with its current nominal gdp of about $ 6.5 trillion . asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have simultaneously grown substantially since 2005 , while mexico ’s performance has been slightly disappointing and egypt ’s ’s even larger . meanwhile , mexico ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s and turkey ’s ’s levels of wealth have come nowhere anywhere near that of south korea ; on the contrary , they are vastly wealthier than the remainder of the n-11 , some that remain among the world ’s poorest countries . collectively , the n-11 comprises some $ 1.5 trillion of the people ; its current nominal gdp is around $ 6.5 trillion . for example , south koreans now also enjoy a standard of living similar to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ steady categorization in south korea as a “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling .
turkey ’s recent incursion into northern syria , owing to a betrayal by the kurds who led the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) and undercut eu interests as well . for the first time since the end of world war ii , europe finds itself with no notable ally or partner . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and treason of its allies represent the new norm for world order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to the demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles , and trump ’s open endorsement of authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians have periodically scale back the idea of an alliance based on shared values , whereas the us and china continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked .
leading economists such as germany ’s klaus regling , which heads the european stability mechanism , a eurozone bailout fund calculated ten years ago to put the eu ’s shrinking workforce at serious limits on economic growth . he forecasts that labor shortages create a cap that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % in years up to 2030 and a mere 1.3 % since then in 2050 . whether or not public sentiment is changing following the attacks of paris , economic migrants are being viewed more negatively . comparatively few europeans seem to be competing about their moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria ’s civil war , or about political oppression elsewhere . eliminating some 70 million jobs ; therefore , taxpayers , from europe ’s economy , would be understandably catastrophic .
not since 1951 have international standards for refugee protection received so much attention . according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . in last count , some 258 million migrants were around the world , with as many as 22.5 million registered as refugees through the un refugee agency . those numbers will continue to fall dwarfed if even the most modest climate-related predictions continue . and yet no international treaty on climate-induced migration has been a gap that now needs to be addressed .
lukyanivska prison , kyiv – one has said no atheists are in foxhole . here , after my show trial , and four and a half months in a male cell , i discovered that there are no atheists in prison , either . in this love and family season , the loneliness of a prison cell is almost unbearable . when , despite being unbearable pain , youtube is being interrogated – including in your own cellphone for 12 hours , as well as for broken hours , and as an authoritarian regime throughout a system of coercion , including his media , it attempts to discredit and destroy you once and for all – prayer becomes the sole intimate , showmanship , and reassuring talk that one can hold . in this love and family season , a prison cell ’s loneliness is almost unbearable .
this reverses the trend over the past few decades toward grant-based financing , especially basic education . but , beyond aid cuts , there can also make donors more difficult for borrowing countries to pay off aid funds that they owe ( this is not confined to education loans ) . borrowing buy-downs can help to keep a education-sector more “ competitive , ” ” ” ” ” and could demonstrate that it is a mechanism to leverage the extra resources on education , for which capital-strapped countries might not be willing to borrow otherwise . and some donors , such as france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to calculate illicit loans as official development assistance to enable them to meet their oda targets . but education , a critical public good , should not be left behind in the pursuit of out-of-pocket aid altogether .
ultimately , the tougher economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , especially with respect to rapid demographic growth : working to develop a fairer distribution of a more growing pie than shrinking one . it is no accident that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence is occurring in the slums of its large cities . had more attention been devoted to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , this population might not have chosen violence as an instrument of change . yet let us draw the right lesson from kenya : socio-economic advancement remains our best tools to avert economic conflict in the longer run . moreover , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth may be accompanied by programs that focus on those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances .
indeed , water supplies are also extremely variable across regions and within countries , with droughts and droughts occurring at a irregular pace . while we are by no means certain of the precise effects , many scientists believe that total global precipitation will increase , but that its seasonality and extremes can also increase the frequency of extremes . this would make it harder to harness the existing supply infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without large modifications . as a result , one new factor influencing water supplies is increasing global temperature . from the earliest modern commentators ’ drivers of socio-economic growth and decline to those of adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx can see that concern with exhausting resources is not new .
qaddafi ’s armed forces have been chosen on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliation , rather than on any notion of merit , which is why the temptation to strip everyone of their underwear resources and to send them home ( describing what can be the most humane outcome ) may well be great . but arguably the most important lesson that was learned in iraq results from an almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army , without pay or retirement . that move lay at the root of many in iraq ’s later security problems . the oil sector appears to be relatively intact , and therefore should be contributing to government revenues relatively soon . libya is lucky .
indeed , even aside from insecurity about new property rights , the gains from privatization are frequently precarious , at best . the problem lies in the assumption that the value of most state-owned enterprises is the problem . in ex-communist countries , too , many ( sometimes most ) large firms were misbegotten from the outset . in the last years of investment in communism was almost totally guided by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . even under the more favorable conditions prevailing in the western world , big state-owned ( and many private ) firms often need to be broken , restructured , pooled , or shut down .
a new international initiative called “ electrification , roadmap , ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieving the mdgs , just as under his “ sustainable energy right ” initiative for all ” ( se4all ) , and formally launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as the discussion showed , these issues capture increased international attention and financing from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , because they are doing huge populations throughout the developing world . eskom ’s leadership role is one of leadership and support . we have electrified more than four million households through a focused effort over a short period , an effort that featured prominently in a debate held by the united nations secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy and that drew interest from other developing countries .
but causation also runs the other way . nigeria 's population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen 's gdp could grow from 18 million today to around 42 million by 2050 . high fertility rates in many countries are , in part , a consequence of low - and middle-income countries . high birth rates stymie investment prospects because excessively rapid population growth makes it all but impossible to accumulate per capita stock of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . the un medium fertility scenario projects that the world 's population will rise from about seven billion today to around ten billion in 2050 .
fast-forward to the us : the economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services . it is now having the lowest sovereign spread for any country in its credit rating class , indicating that markets think that the ratings agencies were asleep in the wheel . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising us interest rates , albania had its lowest rates on record and an enhanced currency . it was there that all the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome were there that they were there . once north korea of europe under the communist dictator enver hoxha ( france ) , albania ’s per capita income level now equals that of germany .
the obama administration should hold firm on this through the upcoming negotiating rounds , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate american policy on darfur to ensure that the peace efforts there receive the same level of attention as the north-south effort . peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalizing relations between american and sudan . what is required now is a political will , not only in the american community , to sustain such diplomacy . conversely , the american people must be prepared to take the lead in international efforts to impose serious consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war . the european union and sudan of their neighbors , especially egypt , ethiopia , kenya and uganda , will also need to play a robust role .
this renewed collapse of debt discipline reflects the socialization of potential debts among all eurozone countries through the means of establishing joint-liability mechanisms . there is nothing particularly surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit to a policy ’s benefits and collectivize costs , pursuing policies sooner , more swiftly and closer than in greece , which would have to bear the costs alone . it is this de facto debt mutualization that pushed creditors to accept lower interest rates and merely the lower interest rates allowed by renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from austerity policies . on the other hand , the new debt is the sort of black dope , easing pressure to take painful measures that would enhance competitiveness and capacity growth . what is remarkable in all is how matter-of-ittly europe , ’s transgressors , succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough .
according to a anderson , in contrast to the great religions of the near east … the religion of wayang has no prophet , no message , no bible , no redeemer , … the endless variety and the sharp individuality of his dramatis personae indicate that wayang is a reflection of the variegation of human life as it is felt by javanese " ( ” ) . the story is almost as complex as that of indonesia itself . one leader of indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia in its core javanese cultures , particularly wayang - a religious tradition . in short , ghana ’s culture helps indonesia to handle the many heterogeneous voices that a new democracy is dropping . and why , then , has n’t the world taken note ?
next door , russia also must respond to new vulnerability stemming from a change in global conditions . attending the southern mediterranean region , it is critical to link engagement with the southern mediterranean region to a critical meeting tipping point , economic , and energy cooperation . in this regard , the eu ’s most valuable tools are its signature achievement , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power . the kremlin maintains support for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain a rigid aversion to military intervention , and seeks to defend its strategic interests , including his naval base in the syrian city of tartus . that stance translated , most clearly , into the recurring vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of victims .
cairo – last week , a visit to egypt by king salman of saudi arabia resulted in 22 agreements , including the $ 22 billion in oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . but lavish aid came in as a price : egypt was forced to relinquish the two red sea islands to it by saudi arabia in 1950 . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a major regional power like falsehoods . indeed , egypt can not even manage the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population , dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists are exploiting with much success . how has the country achieved this point ?
the security challenge that nigeria faces has dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where a united nations special envoy on global education , former british prime minister gordon brown unveiled the safe schools initiative . in a similar manner , the #bringourgirls campaign began online , after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book a speech in which he called upon jonathan to “ bring back down the pupils . ” nigerians are following a show of expressions of online outrage soon translated into organized action offline , led by former government foreign minister oscar ezekwesili ( who was also speaking at a world book day event ) and civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwayam uwayam and hadiza bala guy . the international media have paid rapt attention , reports of protests , and sit-ins . protests have spilled over nigeria , along with countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , like the united states , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada .
an immediate cost has been poland ’s reversal of its resistance to the american anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgian , delaying its withdrawal , parading folded georgian soldiers and failing to protect the georgian people , russia has lost its claims on legitimacy , inflaming fear and mistrust in much of the world . neighbors like ukraine have become even more wary . in early august , russia struck a territorial trap in south ossetia , with cyprus fooliwalked into it . if the russians were using their “ peacekeeping force ” exclusively to shield south ossetians ’ “ self-determination ” ( citing the precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would do little harm to their soft power , and the benefits could overwhelm the costs .
greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , offshore chinese , and dutch and british east indian firms organized much of world trade through such grids . though such alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in their host countries , they were often frail , facing discrimination . but a diaspora source of potential economy goes well beyond remittances . as the late us historian philip curtin documented , from the early days of urban life , millennia ago commerce typically implicates networks of co-in-ethnic merchants living among aliens . economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience over history reflects their capacity to enforce contracts long distances , when existing institutional frameworks could not do the job reliably .
those tariffs raise the cost to us companies using metal as an input . harley-davidson , for example , is to raise its costs by roughly $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . the european union , ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the firm another $ 45 million or so . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten a company ’s existence – what makes it reasonable is that people run that business should respond the way they see fit . trump ’s signature theme is that by helping business , it will help all americans .
but the selection of experts reflected an evident bias toward finance ministry views . in fact , the ministry has been using its “ informational campaign ” to shape public debate , persuasive scholars , business economists , and the general public have become more concerned about keeping budget deficits in check than about the effects of a negative demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ” for over two decades , an era characterized by chronic recession and deflation – japan has retained its status as the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s richest country , in terms of net overseas wealth . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) , or more .
in fact , the great risk nowadays is that , with so much genetic descriptions of pouring organisms , we are drowning in a sea of data , but move further away from our understanding of biological complexity . our first task is to assert , in one way , how many different cells that we find in a complicated organism . what we need now are cell maps and cells ’ maps of how cells talk to each other . the basic functioning units of any complicated living organisms , it should be recalled , are cells , not genes . i think we can now say that to use c. virginia .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement during the spring of 1989 , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing of its tiananmen square , appears to have been a failed anti-communist revolt . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . just as the brutal crackdown on and following june 3-4 , it was winning political freedom in central europe – first in poland and hungary , followed by the start of that decline , in eastern germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , albeit violently and rather undemocratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union , cracked down on mikhail gorbachev ’s reform , finally imploded .
on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , take back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensus-oriented politicians . new fronts in this war are opening daily , and have been opened daily , with no end in sight . in today ’s europe , they view little more than hints of a possibility – hover far less than half-full – for reform and restructuring , and are impatient with europe ’s slow-moving progress . from here , it is , but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and at any rate poised to crash any day now . true , europe is moving at an painfully slow pace ; yet the assault by the state and its allies in the dumber supply side and dinosaurs of industrial worth holders is widening .
some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to increased private-sector investment in agriculture . there is no reason – and no excuse – for abandoning the survival of millions to unpredictable weather patterns . rather , countries must take turns control , by drastically improving efficiency and productivity . simply put , they need the tools , infrastructure , and the competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agriculture potential . to be sure , there has been progress .
such rapid industrial rises are rare , but not unprecedented . even prior to that time , england was the economy ’s wunderkind . the most intriguing analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19th century , and japan ’s in the 20th century . everyone feels that a seismic shift is under way . europeans may be glee , believing that the chinese market will open up not just for europe ’s engineering and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also for luxury goods , and even for the tourism industry demanded by a new , affluent middle class .
but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who could have replaced medvedev should russia need a kind of factotum of sincerity about economic reform . kudrin ’s repudiation of placid competence may merely buy putin some extra time . but , in putin ’s sights , this is an unlikely scenario . a once and a future president argues that he has become a stronger russia , and that , since financial uncertainty grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many . everybody expects that the current president , the puppet of dmitry medvedev , should switch roles with putin after march elections .
over time , this has fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because the banks were not forced to live with the repercussions . likewise , for those underwrites corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , volume is an intrinsic prize , even as that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and is now account for roughly 80 % of the outstanding volume . as a result , the share of the “ weakest links ” – corporates rated b. – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) in overall activity has risen from markedly in 2013-2015 . furthermore , not only are newer issues emanating from a lower-quality borrower ; covenants on those instruments – provisions that were intended to ensure their terms and thus minimize default risk – have become lax as well .
before long , the council will also have to weigh the implications of the probable commencement of an american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another direct area on india ’s national security . issues like the sanctions on iran , a stop-and-start peace process , and a world ’s response to a probable change of leadership on north korea will almost surely emerge on the council ’s agenda as well . issues like the sanctions on iran , a stop-and-start peace process , and a world ’s response to a probable change of leadership on north korea will almost surely emerge on the council ’s agenda as well . issues like the sanctions on iran , a stop-and-start peace process , and a world ’s reflexive solidarity with the “ non-aligned , ” will almost surely emerge on the council ’s agenda as well . one immediate implication of working on the council will be the need to take positions on the issues that some indian mandarins favored in their slumber , such as south sudan , whose referendum on independence is threatening to spark serious violence in an area that indian un peacekeepers are already serving .
that will be sorely tested if it is to succeed . moreover , large numbers of these new fidesz mps have been formerly members of other parties , collapsed right-wing parties , not so long ago . one problem orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks . years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies from youngsters into practical politicians nearing a middle age . that fidesz ’s increase its number of parliamentarians from 20 before the elections to 129 now means that many members have never been subjected to the whip of the party .
but it is the opponents of liberalism that wielding it most effectively . as far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , the forces of globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage . absent dislogic and ethics , domains where the liberal world order continues to outshine an alternative , liberals need to connect with people on an emotional level . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism lie for sources of significant emotion , even as those emotions – the model of nostalgia and a völkisch sense of belonging – are ever-shifting sands . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents must tap in their passions .
studying science ought to start with the state of physics rather than of biology . this sequence of study was devised in the course of 1893 through an examination of the world health organization . i believe that it is outdated , pedagogically disastrous , and ignores the spectacular scientific advances of the twentieth century . a study of students in physics also study algebra simultaneously , motivating precisely the feelings of mathematics 's strengths . other industrial nations can cycle through pieces of disciplines , missing out on vital consistency on the p-c-b sequence .
so far , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funding for wars . but , in britain in 1842 , incomes taxes became the systemic , permanent feature of the us economy . many in that time rejected policy altogether , a warning that it would destroy incentives and put the economy on a downward path further . fortunately , their hue and cry went unheeded . owing to today ’s technological advances , the proportion of overall income accruing to labor ( as opposed to the capital ) is declining globally .
before the financial crisis hit , even germany had violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s deficit limit . both governments and the bond market would have tested the seriousness of the newly agreed fiscal guidance ( if that is ratified ) . yet sticking to europe , forcing all wage adjustments risks greater unrest ; indeed , it might merely postpone the inevitable for quite some time . while talking is tough nowadays , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . in the us , the fiscal deficit limits the 1980 ’s set by the law of gramm-rudhollings were not satisfied , and , like the sgp , were revised and expanded .
between amounted to mtfa , efsm , and payments to third-tier countries , total exposure this year amounted to € 70.5 billion . following a ask by one member state , the commission would have the right to borrow on capital markets under an implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum to be determined according to a country ’s size ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds . such leveraging aid over the eu budget would supplement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( efsm ’s successor ) and mtfa . countries receiving assistance should be allowed to apply the leeway to apply for the eu ’s anticipated aid disbursement . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period is potentially possible , aligning the eu ’s medium-term goal of balancing budgets with debt .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue to kill whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than by environmentalists ’ opposition to it . japan does have one argument that is not so easily dismissed . it is a tradition of tradition , to which they wish to go , probably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . they argue that western countries object to whaling because , for them , whales are a special species of animal because hindus are cows . eating whales need not afford japanese health or better nutrition .
the good news is that germany ’s over-leveraged conglomerates are being scaled back to efficient size , and that capital markets are able to do the job , improving resource allocation . international equity finance stepped in , providing firms with urgent need for liquidity , while disentangling traditional ownership web sites . the bad news is that financial capital moves abroad to fund more over-leveraged conglomerates . abolition of taxes for realized capital gains made a boost to stock sales enormously . germany , inc. at its last legs , does it .
the talks would most likely be suspended ; the us would be back to where it was two years ago , but with an over-lay of recrimination and mistrust . at that point , any realistic policy is bound to start by accepting the reality of complete , and completely verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect any time soon . there is a big difference between a north koreans armed with a handful of inefficient us warheads and precision missiles , and a range of advanced weaponry that could be mounted on an precision long-range missile systems capable of reaching an american . the north koreans could exploit passage of time to boost the number of nuclear weapons in their arsenal , and make some improvements in their warheads and delivery systems free of overt testing . even absent such developments , drift , it seems , is not desirable .
for russia , august 1998 marked the dividing line . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy , and the russian economy has changed . fortunately , bond markets are dead and could take a year to revive them . their absence makes it difficult to invest too large a money in russian securities . a time comes when every disaster has erupted , and every stupidities can be discerned .
the contrast between this dynamic space for open protest , and for saudi arabia , could barely be starker . saudi women find that themselves living within a petrified system . faces the royal family everywhere are seen ; women ’s faces are shrouded , forcibly hidden . they strolled , bussed in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated partly by social demands , above all , by their own empowerment . nowhere else in the world see modernity experience itself as a problem .
in this scenario , one will need to forgo all the well-known economic advantages of a global division of labor . we will be able to identify important swings over the past two centuries of capitalism ’s history of capitalism , either toward a market or on a state . for example , the repeal of glass-steagall in the united kingdom in 1846 favored the free market in international trade , and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i . following wwi , the pendulum swung back to the nation-state . between those extremes play most of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement .
despite such problems , effective action was undertaken to evacuate those at risk and limit possible hazard from consumption of contaminated foodstuffs . japan has a strong international standing when it comes to managing natural disasters . japan ’s national government and local communities have lacked an emergency roadmap for the situation they faced in those contaminated areas , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiencies and poor communication , particularly in terms of radiological hazards . combined , local communities have initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside of evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and entire schools ) , in tandem with efforts by japan ’s atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop technology for remediation within such zones . but the “ perfect storm ” of the biggest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , as well as the resulting meltdown of the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , goes far beyond anything previously envisaged .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing to a close . kirchner ’s successor , his widows , cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . recently suffering a heavy defeat in her peronist party ’s recent customs party , she weakened her chances in the upcoming midterm congressional elections , and undermining her authority throughout her remaining two years in office . moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to remove a subdural hematoma in her boardrooms . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks foreign experience and influence .
the three new agencies will not just enforce common technical standards ; they may ultimately become binding eu-wide if they are endorsed by the european commission ; they will also be permitted to settle disputes among national competences . more important , should the council declare a state of fiscal emergency – like that which we are in nowadays – eu agencies could exceptionally exert a predominance position over sovereign supervisory bodies . in good times , we probably would not be able to tell the difference , but grim reality is that such an arrangement probably would not preclude another crisis . needless to say , “ dispute ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future situations likely to matter for the majority of national policymakers and their taxpayers . if systemically important national financial decisions are made at the european level in good times , while in bad times national taxpayers pick up the tab , the whole eu will lose .
but the cause is all too well known : a war against education is in place . more than 28 million out-of-school children are growing up in conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , the fringes of myanmar , and south sudan . what is all of them are vulnerable to extremist groups and potentially extremist groups in the region . and yet the death toll from the two assaults remains largely unknown . this week , two further attacks have been launched on schoolchildren in both afghanistan , one in a girls ’ school , where staff to be bludgeoned and bomb set off , and another at neighboring boys to receive a classroom through bullets .
a comprehensive program of prevention , providing free or inexpensive condoms , and safe sex to regions worst affected by hiv/aids , would have cost $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives more . this , say , economists attending the copenhagen consensus , makes it the single best investment the world could ever make . the social benefits , according to this view , would outweigh the costs by as much as $ 40 to a single one . one hopes that this task has been rendered relatively easier by disclosure of a book in which the copenhagen consensus economists boil down to insights . here is an one fact to consider : the total death toll from the southeast asian tsunami compares the death toll of hiv/aids every month .
china ’s government in terms of the threat of capital-account losses on its dollar-denominated securities is surely less relevant than the need to keep near-full employment in offshore manufacturing cities like shanghai . the last thing they want are mass unemployment and urban riots to call their positions into question . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotes the eminent intelligently catherine mann commenting on a “ interdependent relationship … between america ’s and its trade partners , ” which might “ last for a rather time , ” because “ the u.s. and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” japan , china , along with other export-oriented east asian economies , indeed are keen to keep the dollar ’s value relatively high , and their central banks have piled up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to good lifestyles .
washington , dc – not long ago , the disconnect between financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries – like the united kingdom and australia – went so far as to abrogate these functions , by devoting their responsibility to financial stability to specialized agencies and decarbonizing their central banks from financial-supervisory issues altogether . in the wake of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management institutions were all forced to reunify . this rapprochement marks a growing recognition that asset-price cycles must look at both macroeconomic management and financial oversight . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles viewed many as fundamentally harmless , or at least as a comparatively insignificant monetary-policy channel .
seoul – when you chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both run away . the two goals , while not incompatible , are fairly different from one another , and scarce policy instruments can do the same to achieve both . and yet that is precisely what many governments are obliged to do : pursue both growth and distributional fairness . a lot of theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening up trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . that idea matters , first and foremost , because of trade policy .
the ttip is not just the us and eu . one possibility , suggested by a former us trade representative , former american trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus for trump ’s implementation of the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . mexico already has an fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , it will require nafta and ttip to be harmonized . meanwhile , the world of other nations , still accounting for more than half of world gdp , and the bulk of global trade and fdi , wonders how the ttip would affect each of them .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone . and , while the cloud over the eurozone as a whole may be the largest bust , it is not the only one that threatens the global economy . to avoid a disorderly eurozone outcome , today ’s fiscal austerity should complement the eu ’s ’s ’s new fiscal compact , with a debt-mutualization fiscal union ( eurobonds ) , and a fiscal union , starting with eurozone-wide deposit insurance , should be launched , and moves toward greater political integration must be considered , even as greece leaves the eurozone . unfortunately , germany resists all of these crucial policy measures , because it envisages credit risk in which its taxpayers would bear stronger economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the probability of a eurozone disaster is rising .
indeed , chinese leaders appear to benefit from the opening provided to an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans . to be sure , china claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful . but actions speak louder than words ; and the message that china ’s behavior sends is far from peaceful . it contends , for example , that its efforts to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy are focused on disabling the malacca straits , a sea-trade route that is perceived to be choke points for the chinese economy . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral ties that both countries would benefit next to impossible .
european opponents of the chart for ukraine and georgian argue that neither country is prepared to opt for nato membership . but the map of the map does not effectively imply an automatic right to nato membership . too many question denounces their national unity , are said to exist , with too many internal conflicts linger , and their track record on political and judicial reforms is supposedly dubious . both would have to answer many hard questions , and persuade others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic demands before they are allowed to join . on the other hand , the maps would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgia .
so what do the left and the right still mean , if anything ? there is little question that something has shifted around the past few decades of the twentieth century . left-wing parties started to lose , in some countries more rapidly than others – their base of an industrial working class . left-wing parties started to lose , and , on balance , in some countries more quickly than others – their bedrock in an industrial working class . however , like donald trump , it has been le pen , who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , was portrayed as a puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats .
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need their nuclear weapons , given the north korean threat , and their diminished confidence in america ’s reliability , and its guarantees to protect it with their nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons might set in motion a preemptive war . “ using or losing it ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when capabilities are not robust enough to absorb an attack and still mete out the sort of devastating retaliation essential to effective deterrence . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals in the region would increase the temptation for either one or more country to strike at a crisis . one risk is that north korea will over the coming years come to possess a significant arsenal that poses a meaningful threat to america .
this emphasis on boosting us exports rather than reducing imports has been a welcome feature . given that this is not enough to stem other forms of chinese theft by american civilian and military technologies , the new nss rightly stresses that america ’s government will take additional steps to stop it . when it turns toward specific trade policies , nss emphasizes that america would seek to “ break down trade barriers and give americans opportunities to increase their exports . ” this emphasis on enhancing us exports , rather than reducing imports , has been a welcome feature . at a 2013 sunnylands summit meeting at the sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama showed china ’s president xi jinping ’s evidence that wto members were stealing industrial technology .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power and a decline in america . in fact , over-confidence in judging its power has led to a more assertive chinese foreign-policy activism in both 2009 and 2010 . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and worsening relations with america , japan , australia , and other countries have opted to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy . but such narratives can lead to conflict , and are likely to result in conflict . china has miscalculated by deviating from the smart strategy of a rising power , and by violating deng ’s dictum that china should move forward cautiously and to keep a low profile skillfully .
but , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . argentina fell back into crisis for a simple reason that not enough had changed in the last debacle . though they had committed themselves to an ambitious reform agenda , in many cases argentina ’s economic and financial institutions were also making several avoidable errors . fiscal discipline and structural reforms were messy , with the central bank squandered its credibility at key times . as things stand , a country ’s economic and financial fundamentals left vulnerable to internal and external shocks .
attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it had already started . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp based on initial monthly gdp estimates , a statisticians that are often substantially revised as more data become available . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters contributing a survey of professional forecasters predicted that gdp decline in the rest of this year ’s months ; in fact , gdp plunged by more than 8 % in the fourth-quarter of 2008 , one of the highest slips on record . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators that were used to measure the economy rely on briefings , incomplete or flawed data . as a result , forecast lag behind reality .
fighting in kosovo is the first significant conflict , which for one side at least involves no strategy considerations , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . nato , for the first time intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . fighting in kosovo is the first significant conflict , which for one side at least involves no strategy considerations , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . this represents a significant change in nato ’s policy , which downgrades thinking about states ’ sovereignty and elevates the status of ethical norms within international relations . at issue is an attempt to halt the epidemic , the bearers of which in the 20th century europe was nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism .
buildings already guard against dangers like fire and earthquakes . california ’s latest construction and appliance standards are expected to avoid the need for five major coal-fired power plants in the next ten years . policymakers know that governments have a role to play in ordering regulation to create a level playing field and helping to build industrial capacity . buildings last for decades , so choices made today have a long-term impact on our energy consumption . far-sighted governments in places as diverse as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings .
as the treaty sought to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why have so much outrage at both the us and the west ? my fear is that the us has found itself denying its primacy in setting global policy toward iran . rather than seeking to explore the options presented by its brazilian/turkish opening , the bush administration ’s move pushed the un security council to push for more sanctions ( the fourround so far ) on iran . this has compelled brazil and turkey , both of which are currently non-permanent members of the security council , to vote against resolution of sanctions . nevertheless , the effort to preempt america ’s strategy clearly failed , as the new un sanctions were implemented earlier this month .
to be sure , debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise for countries in economic trouble . and it turns out that below-trend growth rates across all of these categories as debt-to-gdp ratios rise , at only somewhat more in the final category . at the same time , there is a topic of reverse causality . if this is part of the reason for higher debt-to-gdp ratios consistent with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid the above ratio ; because keynes ’s theory dictates that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance . at the same time , debt-to-gdp ratios are increasing for those in economic trouble .
many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protests are fueling the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) tells us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . currently , solar and wind together deliver around 1 % of global electricity , and the international energy agency estimates that this will reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . this is also one reason why the world is falling far further behind in its own “ energy transition ” than most people realize . vaclav smil , bill gates , believes that , “ the claims of a rapid transition to a zero-carbon society are drawing plain nonsense , ” adding that a greatly accelerated shift toward renewables would not relegate fossil fuels to minority global energy-supply contributors anytime soon , certainly not after 2050 . as a result , policies are forcing humans and companies to shift toward immature technology will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty .
a ugandan doctor working in norway , to say , cares little about beer costs in kampala . it is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local physician for services and , of course , a home in uganda . yet the drop in remittances is decreasing , both ways . remittances have long fueled inflation in many parts of africa . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money transfers in african countries .
rather , it should be applied judiciously and rationally , rebalancing potential risks with the advantages that innovations and new technologies might offer . this notion of risk underpins economic interactions . in europe , by contrast , greater weight is placed on risk-off mis-avoidance , which undermines private-sector confidence in the investing in innovation . the eu ’s goal in protecting human health and the environment is laudable . but mitigating all risks is impossible , so intent on doing that is unfeasible .
ramallah : palestinians and israelis have different and possibly conflicting expectations , owing to the kind of indirect negotiations that the united states has pressured both sides to begin . it now seems clear that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , initiating indirect talks without freeze settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem is a type of victory . just to remind the world of this since the june indirect talks were preparing to take off the ground , israel ’s ’s ’s government passed the resolution to brexit on 112 housing units in the settlement south of bethlehem and the 1600 new settlement units in eastern jerusalem . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to surrender their blessing to the talks . for the palestinians , the return to the talks , however indirect , focused on one strategic question : borders .
for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the “ orthodox commandment ” that thou does not intervene , “ a crucial feature of globalization hazard is market failure . ” that failure in international capital markets led to a sudden , destructive bout of capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . consider additional devastating events , which are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . unlike moral hazard , market failure highlights circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger instantaneous federal assistance .
the more europe ’s establishment chokes away its democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . just as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance , as british prime minister under the control of money and interest rates controls european politics . thus , though european countries remained democratic , eu institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions was translated , remained essentially democracy-free . handing over european money and policy to a cartel administration , it did not just spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . that leads european leaders to redouble on authoritarianism to stick to their failed policies when recessionary economic forces reinforce .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios were predicting . almost six months later , the total damage remains hard to forecast . and now the country has absorbed another enormous blow : yet another downgrade of its bond ratings . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s are now leading japanese bonds at just their fourth-tier level . social unrest and turmoil , along with the radiation leaks from the fukushima nuclear power plant , are continuing .
even if the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be assured , large numbers could still evade defensive systems . in addition , the iranian regime has forged a proxy network across the region . both syria and iraq have become crucial links within the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , the iraqi shia militia , and hezbollah that controls southern lebanon and possesses thousands of rockets ready to target israel . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron-dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all crude missiles launched from gaza .
an iraqiya ravaged warmongering on a daily basis of violence is well known as the most intellectually yearning among arab countries . indeed , rasheed notes that , in every american screening of his film , audiences need apologizing before referring to rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as the agent of his country . “ personally , i ask nothing ; i ’m here to clear some turmoil by the medium of film . ” here is the hope that raheed and his colleagues continue to build an iraq culture that is vibrant and free ; and here the hope that the us and international audiences rasheed ’s relations go from one of expiration to one of engagement in his work . as both the iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region often unfold : “ books are written in egypt printed in lebanon to read in iraq .
the first risk stems from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates rise and fall together . complicating matters further for china , the rush to establish an open , market-oriented economy has been fueled by corruption and rent-seeking . and , as recent european post-crisis experience starkly demonstrated , implementing structural reforms is politically challenging , when vested interests captured the regulatory system . that is why chinese president xi jinping ’s belt has spearheaded a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as power grab – beginning in 2012 – since assuming office . yet it is here that china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two types of cyclical macroeconomic risk .
economic globalization has been shown to reduce child mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to rising incomes and better information . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen average lifespan by the end of 2-3 years . what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , ” to quote one academic study . moreover , trade also carries very much broader benefits for society as a whole . in america ’s trade over the last half-century , increased longevity has been a major factor .
the permanent , structured defense cooperation on the ground , agreed by the european council last december , is a good place to start , with countries rising , such as joint european strategic planning . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funds to accepting their migrants , eu member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . but , just as appealing as it may be to attempt to paper over differences , or to avoid dissent , let alone destroy the compact at the european project ’s core , nothing will make matters any easier . the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic , gradual effort to build unity . no issue is hard for 27 sovereigns to act like one .
the slaying of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in the hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked afghanistan ’s deadliest day since the taliban ’s fall , adding to the grim global tally . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists imprisoned worldwide in the past 15 years , and only a few months later have been brought to justice . and yet , even fresh glimpses of hope are multiplying . around the world , journalists and their followers are fighting back in encouraging ways . to be sure , the media are under assault like that ever , and not just from fake news and polarizing presidents .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for much of the world , with around 15 % of its gdp , but barely 15 % of its gdp . now the billions of people lifted out of poverty and are wealthier , healthier , and have more opportunity . yet not that long ago , almost nobody saw it coming . future historians may well bear this period in mind that the world ’s biggest exercise , inclusivity , to date . this unanticipated megatrend has been unforeseen graver .
indeed , it reacted to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , stalking horses for american or german interests that would ultimately exploit ordinary poles . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . simultaneously , poland ’s communist government emphasized how incoherent the opposition was , owing to tensions intrinsic to economic liberals ’ marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , a conservative catholics , and nationalists . nurturing suspicions of who was backing which helped drive the wedges among different groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview today .
as the liberal democratic party ’s leader , abe should instruct local party branches to pick out more female candidates to run in the next april , at the expense of local elections . moreover , it is disturbing that some of abe ’s women have chosen for his cabinet and key party posts are arch-conservatives , who advocate that women stay home and take care of children . japan ’s inter-parliamentary union ranks 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio of female mps to the parliament . so far , however , abe seems unable to exercise the will to do so ( though he may choose to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to enroll more women ) . things are just as bad at lower levels in government , where women hold just 13.1 % of the incumbents in local parliaments , more than 40 % have no female members at all .
a fundamental difficulty in planning enhanced longevity is that we have no idea whether it will really happen . some scientists report that average human lifespan could reach at least 90 years or more by mid-century . but what , if our wish is granted any such thing ? what good is a life longer if we can not uphold our standard of living ? a living that is one of our deepest wishes , and in both medical and economic progress offers the hope that it can be met .
so , in establishing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to alienate the country ’s political and business elites , who have long benefited from his tight grip on power . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics , with a knack for communicating with people . in short , if jokowi is to build his national consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs , he will need to scale up that political divide . to that end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model . and , as a political outsider , he is in the unique position of direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , unified future – and vault himself to the country of big leaders .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the imf is far too political an entity to act as a kind of systemic-risk watchdog . the next g-20 summit should put in place a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should cede the fsb the legal personality , enshrined in an international treaty . currently , the board has no formal mandate , and only a small , albeit quality , permanent staff hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . draghi ’s successor as chairman should include full-time appointee , with the fsb given powers for direct other standard-setters , review individual countries ’ implementation of norms , and publish outcomes .
both feminist chants and crude chords were secondary . increased male chants , from pete township shend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in the support of women . and they were more interested in the creation of visual imagery . the case , too , attracted the west ’s attention . to be sure , a pussy riot could hardly be categorized as musicians .
moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr ’s head , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil corporation , to turn the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate the market in gulf guinea and other emerging regions . the petroleum exporting ministry ( dpr ) , a state-owned oil regulatory agency , has dismissed those claims vowing , vowing vowing to impose hefty fines for companies that flout the gst . that also means ending government co-financing of operating costs , and requiring oil companies to tap capital markets to bridge the shortfall . in the early 1990 ’s , desperate for a hard currency , nigeria ’s negotiated contracts are providing a state-owned oil company to develop new fields , as well as to re-establish its investment ahead of redistribution of profits . now , following companies seeking to discover massive reserves , yar ’ adua ’s designated adua should take charge of providing oil policy charge to nigeria a larger slice of the pie .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states led to a so-called “ war on terror ” . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole of it ; many countries also ramped up monitoring and policing both homegrown media and ordinary citizens . by using security as a means to weld russia with media laws that explicitly protected journalists from censorship , the government undermined journalism considerably . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror laws have often been used as an instrument of muffle voices of those offering independent or alternative viewpoints that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . free speech and personal privacy , governments have claimed , will have to be curbed in terms of security .
and all have been ready to follow traditions of dictators and resort to smears , distortion and fantastical claims . the populist campaigns in major referenda this year have differed in important respects . but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your proxy owes you not to his industry only , but to his judgments and betrays , instead of serving you , as long as he sacrifices it to your outlook . ” but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your proxy owes you , not his proxy owes you , not his industry only , but his judgment , and he betrays , instead of serving you , as long as he sacrifices it to your opinion . ” colombian opponents of the peace deal , for example , appealed to universal norms of justice for war-crimes charges committed by the military and farc , rather than national particularism , as in the united states and the netherlands .
but now that we are aware of those accusations against the comedian and movie headed , we are being forced , conscott ’s view , to reappraise that work in this light . something ominous and immoral can be heard in films that we should take into account . in other words , bad behavior , or even supposed bad behavior , can taint an artistic work , because the artist can not distance himself from his arts . this is at least an intriguing proposition , not a notion that art is supposed to be disqualified only because we do n’t dislike the way that the artist behaved privately . to a ballooning young man , allen , a anxious intellectual who still marry a girl , was a sort of role model .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed on corruption charges . and the public officials are , just as well , being prosecuted . at the same time , indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto was pushed to resign , after grabbed experiments to extort money from the freeport-port-mcmoran subsidiary . guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed on corruption charges . and indonesia ’s special anti-corruption court has just sentenced the country , ’s former minister of energy and minerals , jerusalem , to four years in prison .
for one thing , policymakers are often more likely to continue to increase their countries ’ reliance on funding , heightening the downside risk of a disorderly market-driven adjustment than pursuing difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustment . a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” entails a combination of domestic reform and funding , with and judicious use of its market pricing mechanisms . most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing such maneuvers . but what look good in theory has proven difficult , in practice , to implement . for that , many countries have endured painful disruptions , which aggravated possibly avoidable falls on output , stemming from surge unemployment , and , at worst , eroded potential growth .
stanford – in march , a german-syrian tabloid bild published an article outlining the secret documentary that reveals how breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are – if not treating it as parts of russia ’s sovereign territories . revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations , as part of a new light , one that elicits the frustrations of ukrainian officials . a bild document gathered by russia ’s october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission on the provision of humanitarian assistance for affected areas in the association of donetsk and luhansk . ” a work groups that collaborate with russian authorities were established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade . it describes how meeting asean attendees aimed not only at targeting humanitarian assistance , but rather at serving as a sort of shadow government .
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and thrive , but rather on how it can alter its own relationship with europe , then there should be little doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners will spur this negotiations . when , over the course of a “ adjustment , ” ” ” ” ” the eu gets terribly rough ( as it will ) , they will say “ well , ’s pity , but now adjustment does not seem to be enough . varying degrees of politeness will happen , and with it . but they will not , and will not , thank the us and will not accommodate us . let us be extremely clear , too , about “ renegotiating the terms of membership , the ” ” the sanctuary of those seeking to leave but want to recognize the people that it truly is merely adjusting the relationship .
africa ’s causes of stem gender imbalances are often compared to a leaky pipe : girls start out of self-interest and aptitude , but drop out of disciplines at different points in learning . it also deprives a continent of the talents and contributions that are needed to drive the development and progress that is needed . gender-equity in stem is achievable , with a growing number of african scholars demonstrating the world how to make it work . a 2011 african development bank finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” but they need help , with the programs offering scholarships and support being among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences .
the benefits of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . the current system is both risky and inefficient , to say the least . different monies are not just an annoyance for tourists who arrive home pockets full of unspendable foreign coins . global firms waste time and resources on largely futile attempts to hedge exchange-rate risk ( benefiting only those middlemen ) . and , however farfetched a global currency may sound , recall that before world war i ditching the gold standard looked equally implausible .
what they did not do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counter-proposal . their offer – which would need to go much further than the 2002 arab peace initiative or a portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – could even integrate kushner ’s plan as part of a transition to a final settlement . in the past , transitional agreements amounted to what george orwell called “ the catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with the incorporation of a robust economic strategy , this could be transformed into a sort of “ auspicious gradualism . ” after all , driving economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian societies in preparing for statehood , drastically advancing a peace settlement ’s chances for its long-term success .
the caning of kartika is by no means an example of political manipulation , and it is perhaps even more worrisome for that reason . as a consequence , the umno finds itself squeezed among an islamic lobby that presses for greater “ talibanization ” of the country , and rising voices from international critics who can not ignore , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power . her phrase has been roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals who insist that punishment is justly applied and can not be questioned , because it has divine sanction . what is the majority is anti-umno , as well as the support of the pas . these are not politicians , but the former idealists who are happy to discover their goals for islamicizing nation .
it would probably seek to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , a trade treaty that president barack obama committed to the us last year . above all , an america would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because the us might want a united asia-pacific economic community rather than a divide between asia and the pacific . given that japan would not want to be disconnected from the us on strategic grounds , it might , in fact , accept america ’s invitation . of course , an america would need to react to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta to maintain its own role in global trade , as well as to the supply chains that dominate asian economies . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means for bridging sino-centric asia and a trans-pacific partnership .
but , while it quietly makes many important technical contributions to various debates , it has nonetheless been hemmed in politically , and thus can not achieve forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . as a result , america ’s fed chairman nowadays commands super-normal influence . for the boj , a fundamental problem is its deep-seated institutional fear of rocking the boat politically , and thus its inability to play the chief economist ’s role . as the premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play the leadership role of europe in discussing fiscal policy , trade policy , and a demographic transition . indeed , this is the unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a team of nations that has yet to decide whether they prefer greater unity or more decentralization .
these results foreshadowed a study last year by the anne case and angus deaton , showing that life expectancy has been on the decline for large segments of the us population , including america ’s so-called angry rust belt men . but with incomes at the bottom 90 % had stagnated for close to one-third in a third of a century ( and declining for a significant share ) , health data simply confirmed that things were n’t going well for very large swaths of the country . why was a backlash in the us coming back when the economy seemed on the mend rather than sooner ? and while america might be at the extreme of this trend , matters were little better elsewhere . but , should it seemed clear that political repercussions will follow , their formulation and timing were far less obvious .
for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetric war such as that it fought in lebanon more than two summers ago , this time in an alleys show in gaza ’s ’s ’s refugee camps . aside from the annapolis talks – which appear that going nowhere because of parties ’ irreconcilable differences over core issues – all further peace efforts are more tactical than strategic . in neither of them does the conditions yet exist for the immediate leap from war to peace , nor for the parties themselves , it should be expected that this will happen . it would require courageous statesmanship to turn a cease-fire with hamas into the prelude to political talks . indeed , both israel and the united states are adamant in curtailing hamas ’s withdrawal of the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as a opposition movement just to a negotiation seemingly unlikely to appease the palestinian people on minimal requirements .
for their part , other eu member countries would need to decide whether to hold the euro together in their truncated form , or revalue their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or the franc . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation , and perhaps also of the franc , relative to the euro . specifically , germany , europe ’s biggest economic power , and france ’s intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro , re-admission to the deutsche mark , as well as the cfa franc . whatever their decision , raising the price competitiveness of the eurozone ’s weaker economies would improve substantially . to be sure , france and germany would need to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability .
none of this would have been possible had iran ’s antiquated muslim rulers not allow for academic freedom and freedom of thought and free exchange of speech – something that is sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . during its muslim era , iran has boasted of some of its biggest poets , with writers and scientists the world over . thus , the islamic revolutionaries back in 1979 made a point of preserving zhou yongastrian ’s fire temples . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down hard on their intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or simply anyone with ideas and willing to exchange it with others . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new globalized terrorist group , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism .
its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would differentiate it from current arrangements . so the leadership group would constitute an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to resolving and resolving core issues and providing the desperately needed vehicle for translating it into action . in order to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe and within current structures , the leadership group should include representative agencies from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . initially , the leadership group could include representative representatives from a core group of states – such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly empowered and linked by their respective presidents and prime ministers . a first priority for leadership would be to address the present crisis .
the extreme rise in real oil prices has been a key cause of the current recession , and its reversal will be a significant driver of recovery . finally , there are two important differences between the 1930 ’s and now . until now , the industrial world has become much more reliant on ( mostly foreign ) oil exports than it was then . as some confidence returns to the eventually recapitalized banking system , and protracted bond yields decline with depressed inflation , the subprime-mortgage and other borrowing rates decline and transmission mechanisms revive , supporting economic activity and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at a substantially lower level . a other critical difference is that we know enough not to repeat mistakes , especially trade protectionism , since the 1930s .
populist movements have emerged , called for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ gloomy truth ” : this , “ we can no longer take it for granted that people are so trusting in a life of science , facts , and cognition . ” scientists continue to surprise us with wonderful discoveries , leaving billions of people worldwide out of poverty . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and denying them expertise led heldin to a “ gloomy truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people will believe in a state of science , facts , and cognition . ” to be sure , our expectations will always breed tensions with reality . but the dark clouds have formed on the horizon , too .
denver – the agreement about syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what that could mean on a ground that remains to be seen as inspectors start flowing into syria and , to be hoped , chemical-weapons stockpiles are beginning to be destroyed . rather , the agreement ’s major relevance is that it has been struck at all : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva , that most traditional us diplomatic venues , cut an agreement on a intensive mutual interest issue . a cooperative us-russian relationship is essential if , now almost dysfunctional , the international system is to work properly on the future . in the days and months ahead , arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , initiate a new era in which the us and russia are working together on other pressing global issues as well . an agreement concerning syria might accomplish something else : the americans might recognize that , amlo and stick , there are other , hard ways to resolve problems than by dropping bombs .
to be sure , while multinational corporations enjoy flexibility in through transfer pricing , and they can exert pressure at a time when any new investment decisions are made , their flexibility does not match the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . at the same time , there is an advantage that lies at the center of the global economy , rather than at the periphery . capital is in much greater shape than labor , because capital is more mobile . capital is in much greater shape than labor , because capital is more mobile . to be sure , multinational corporations enjoy flexibility in transfer pricing , and they can exert pressure at a time when any new investment decisions are made ; but their flexibility does not correlate with the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors .
i have long defaulted on watching a five-year forward price for the lack of a more fundamentals-based approach to thinking about the equilibrium oil price . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude oil ’s spot price is less subject to more speculative fluctuations , and it is thus a purer ’s approximation on underlying commercial supply and demand factors . with the spot price having now moved above a five-year forward price , one could conclude that a upward trend is underway . for my part , i ’m unsure ; but it would hardly be surprised if it did occur . the graph i prepared , which was made ahead of the latest oil-price acceleration in early november , to demonstrate the five-year forward oil price picking up after a period of relative stability .
the dpj ’s sole reason for this is its anti-ldp stance , while the sdp has long opposed the japan-american security treaty , and the pnp has strongly opposes the koizumi era ’s privatizations . that is not conducive to a coherent program of government , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration has quickly exposed the dpj in fundamental hollowness . but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s government now is that the dpj assumed power , without a cohesive national-security policy . that should not have surprised any one . the dpj was founded in 1998 as a “ jambalaya ” party consisting of people who had abandoned the ldp , including hatoyama himself and a former socialist party .
preparation of an effective national defense is unthinkable , without more or less holding part in every state ’s institution . in a democratic state that engages in defense efforts only begets the most insofar as society understands the value of defense in the first place . thus , time and again that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of each individual . the region ’s new republics confront no concrete or visible enemy at present . as a result , many view defense expenditures as a luxury , if not outright waste of money .
more investment might enable scholars to discover new microbial strains with unique capacity to leverage soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . greater investment in soil research could have the spillover benefits for african economies as well . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to the issuance of three american patents with a number of agricultural companies pursuing industry-by-industry rights . with new discoveries leading to our patents and licenses , resulting research could spur the formation of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for electrical benefits from this kind of research .
in the american-iranian equation this was the american , not iran , that has run rigid ideological diplomacy . iran backed america during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . iran has also backed america in its war in order to de-pose the taliban in afghanistan . and , in the united states , when american forces overran saddam hussein ’s army in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that puts every contentious issue on the table , from a nuclear question to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . at the same time , iranians have pledged to halt the us-led arab peace process .
putin recently made this plain by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a “ preemptive deterrence ” strategy . at the same time , america has long pursued its military edge . it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty ( abm ) treaty in 2002 . and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , for the rest of the world , russia , china , and the rest of the world will not allow a return to us hegemony .
it tends to be perceived globally as supercilious , petulant , and prim . but , in copenhagen , the structure set up by the treaty of lisbon failed . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and its rapidly dwindling ) and composed mostly of a post-industrial low-growth economy , the eu is increasingly perceived as a fringe . it tends to be perceived globally as supercilious , petulant , and prim . at the same time , its know-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere .
if a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart decides that it wo n’t allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power tends to lead to changes in packaging for the entire retail sector . by any measure , the same goes for the pay and labor practices . but bigger companies also have an ever-larger capacity to be a force for good , both locally and globally . when the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s largest companies and most well recognized brands take seriously their responsibilities as buyers , vendors , and manufacturers and uber , as well as a firm commitment to acting on their balance values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those who operate economically well and seek to improve the lives of everyone connected to the manufacture , commercializing and distribution of their products will benefit kudos , more trade , or simply not being singled out as a bad actor .
this can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan . but most decisions about how to spend money that they receive are being made outside the country . simply put , the current approach of western countries does not work . despite the massive increases in aid dollars over the last few years , including a billion authorized by former president barack obama , those on us soil largely cut off from the delivery process . there are roughly 70 discrete local aid offices , as well as some 40 international ngos involved in providing aid to pakistanis .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all may not led to the undesired effect of a spiral of extreme climate change , owing to the catastrophic rise in global temperatures , halting the catastrophic rise in global temperatures , halting modest environmental losses , and rising levels of poverty . ” he noted that oil companies are sticking to – a continuing quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , whereas the paris accord plainly urged keeping most fossil-fuel reserves underground . and he reminded executives that , “ civilization requires energy ; but the use of energy must not destroy civilization ! ” francis has underscored the moral dimension of the problem : it is wrong . equally corruption of purpose makes the canadian government guaranteeing a new pipeline to export output from its contaminate and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewable-energy sources .
and a near-identical , invariably deadly preventable disease , kuru , has ravaged aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie tend to be infectious , and the virus remains severe in both countries . the resulting epizootic ( animal epidemic ) has affected over 280,000 cows . kuru has been transmitted through cannibalistic rituals that commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950s . likewise , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy cattle have been fed meat and bone meal from infected livestock .
viewed from every angle , the extremity i of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit do not need it and those who can not obtain it – is highly problematic . if left unattended , it leads to backsliding , and then accelerated , renewed economic deleveraging , with the upper first-round costs – a prolonged period of high unemployment and growth stress – borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer them . this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many mortgage holders with a very high legacy of interest rates and balances that far exceeds their homes ’ market value . all of this slows social mobility , tears already-strained safety nets , worsens inequalities , and accentuates genuine worries about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . on the next stage , as the system slowly implodes , even those with healthy balance sheets would be imperiled , accelerating their disengagement from the world economy .
everywhere , for whatever reason , misguided strategy , tactical blunders , erroneous theories , american intervention , etc. – all faced only defeat , repression , and futility . by the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly clear that the armed struggle of power in latin american countries was winding down . in a country after a country defeated , the guerillas , pacified , conveyed into the democratic process , or became irrelevant . europe-wide democratic transitions were rendered indiscriminate warfare : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever trappings ( or one might add up , realities on the ground ) of democratic rule prevailed , taking up arms were frivolous . just a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , after a brief time of zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and farc in colombia .
the only political space left for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servant . european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but the less aggressive form it was living on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . at that time , the working class dependably supported center-left parties . the social foundation of interwar fascism made it a reasonable glimpse of this as a center-right party . back then , the social basis of left-wing politics had already vanished .
it should have been organized , and implemented with due respect to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information would have been relayed by the greek people . the eu was getting a hastily arranged referendum in the first place . putting that aside , let us suppose that the decision prior to tsipras was so vital and complicated that he merited the referendum ’s exceptional step . in that case , the event was supposed to reflect that complexity . it was supposed to be a prudent and deliberate referendum .
as the culture psychologist richard shweder observes , female circumcision featured in conflict between europeans and middle easterners for centuries . moreover , different communities prioritize human rights differently . to some , the moral framework on which human rights are offered is sufficient in itself ; but , for others , as william galston of brookings institutions observes , “ human-rights language hardly exhausts the realms of moral and spiritual goods . ” indeed , there are obvious tensions among circumcision , not only between religious freedom and individuals ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and state authority , institutional multiculturalism , and nationalism , as well as religious and secular moral perspectives . in other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than in many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be complicit in a passing judgment about any practice with deep cultural or religious roots .
asia ’s two giants have long defined their relations with the ussr ’s famous pancha : mutual respect for one another for one another ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s internal matters ; and mutual non-interference with each other ’s internal matters ; and mutual damage ; and peaceful co-existence . the updated principles would maintain strategic communication and sound bilateral relations ; harness one another ’s ’s strengths and expand cooperation on infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and build trust and friendship in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests ; and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s rooted concerns and reconciling bilateral disagreements . india would be happy to embrace each of these principles . now china ’s new leaders have encoded a sheela ’s new pancha , with president xi jinping submitting a five-point proposal ” to sino-indian relations . new delhi is emerging as a key country in sino-indian relations .
the bank also pushed for privatization of national health systems , water utilities and road and power grids , and grossly under-financed these critical sectors . this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” went counter the practical lessons of development achievements in china and the rest of asia . the result has been a disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades . our practical development strategy recognizes the importance of public investment in public investment – in sectors like agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – that are indispensable complements when it comes to private investment . for 25 years , the bank attempted to push governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished farmers with a place to fend for themselves .
putin ’s authority may seem unshakeable ; but it is in fact propped up by propaganda and fear . when the us betrays its own values to avoid challenging russia , putin reinforces putin ’s hand very different . already , opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , awarding the government the excuse to bar him from the ballot . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take leeway with foreign leaders giving him given to him . meanwhile , the perception that he has on the ropes enabled putin to pursue silencing his opponents .
across europe , calls for a “ affordable energy ” are fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of green-energy commitments . with energy prices moving the center stage , already-weak renewable-energy investment incentives will be severely undermined . recent debates within the uk illustrate the emerging fault lines . five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , its political leaders are openly attacking “ burdensome ” green taxes .
moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public-sector support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay , raise ordinary chinese – particularly the middle class , which was once high in hope of reform – to become increasingly disillusioned . indeed , for all of its practical purposes , pro-market reforms tend to be dead . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay , are driving ordinary chinese , particularly the middle class , who once enjoyed high hopes for reform , to become increasingly disillusioned . indeed , for all of its practical purposes , pro-market reforms are a dead end .
aside from another reasonably productive nuclear-secure summit in madrid in march 2012 , the news regarding the disarmament front over the past year has certainly been grim . additional us-russia arms-reduction negotiations give way to a halt long before the american presidential election season . negotiations for “ de-alert ” the 20,000 nuclear weapons remain at absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness has never actually begun . the cautious initial move by america to amend its nuclear doctrine , seeking to accepting that nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” is responding to a nuclear threat and not any other type of one , has gone nowhere . meanwhile , none of the other nuclear-armed nations has voiced the slightest interest in a bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiation until the two major powers , which now hold 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , make further cuts .
in the process , he has transformed a country that is in the grip of drug barons and on the brink of becoming a failed state . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a growing economy , have delivered , for the first time in three decades , normality to colombia ’s cities , and , increasingly , to peace and the rule of law to much of its great jungle regions . indeed , many farc defectors now favor fighting for their cause at the ballot box , under the ballot box , polo alternativo democratico . but uribe ’s apparent defeat of the farc extends far beyond colombia . the country ’s hostage relief mission has also forced chávez , still recovering from last year ’s failed power-grab referendum ( a moment when chávez ’s own army high command allegedly refused his demand to fudge the result ) onto a defensive .
yet the reality remains that an important share of the world ’s 30 million 30 million displaced children , 12 million of whom are refugees , will go through their school-age years without ever having set foot in a school . across the world ’s 35 conflict zones – including 75 million children – currently are being denied both education and the prospects for future employment . yet with a $ 40 billion annual financing gap for primary and secondary education on its own , there is also an obvious need for a new approach to education . aside from mobilizing private sources of financing , we must ensure that the aid already has been available ( this year of $ 13 billion ) goes far further than it has in the past by creating incentives for recipient governments to scale up their own education-aid investments . clearly , aid for international education will need to rise .
and , indeed , a significant share of greece ’s government debt migrated from the banks to robust public institutions , like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions already are mostly disqualifying from private institutions . but the risks have not been eliminated . the margin for error for major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are not yet seriously capitalized , modest losses from direct defaults , and indirect business losses by greece ’s companies can threaten bank equity capital , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
it would have been helpful , for example , for programs long ago to track how many high-blood people have been diagnosed and positioned to treat them , what share of those on treatment reached blood-curdling controls , and what levels of treatment should be required to lower premature deaths by a desired target . finally , the aids effort was capable of expanding , owing to the robust advocacy and collaborations that reshaped markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and encouraging competition when combined with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers managed to ensure market efficiencies . as a result , these efforts cut annual hiv treatments costs from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 . the resulting economies of scale enabled suppliers to shift from low - to lower-scale , high-margin solutions for high-volume , lower-margin profit models .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is the access to life-saving medications , not whether what gets a person is part of the epidemic . bilateral treaties form the cornerstone of enhanced ties with countries ’ friendship . a global consensus , reflected in the commission ’s report , calls for more exceptions in order to make drugs available in whatever case they could save a life . just before the last year ’s trade talks in cancun , america made some concessions so that it was no longer the holdout . in its bilateral trade deal , however , america is demanding what becomes known as “ trips plus , ” which would augment intellectual-property rights further , ensuring that countries have only the privilege of producing inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other contingencies .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export-led growth would expose the chinese economy to the risks of overheating . and if its exports were to grow more rapidly , they could allow the renminbi to rise . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether america ’s recovery is real . if they do , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly as a result . meanwhile , chinese spending rates will not change dramatically .
when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , debates with the nongovernmental counterparts , whether on land or on policy work , were discouraging . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad array of policymakers , for example – is now viewed as integral to effective country advice and program implementation , as well as being vital to the fund ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ surveillance function ” under its articles of agreement . the situation today is very different . a similar pivot is needed , if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national concerns that are now intruding on its policy agenda . specifically , the fund would have to supplement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private counterparts .
at a time of growing concern , once slow to respond , the world is now acting in real terms . thirty countries have recently signed on to lucens or to safe school guidelines that instruct their military institutions how to stop the use of schools as instruments of war . leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of school children are a “ trigger violation ” for naming terrorist organizations in the un security council ’s annual report . and , rendered up by the united nations children of the fund ( unicef ) , a global coalition to protect education from attack , a global business coalition to provide education for all , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala now have piloted the concept of safe schools . this has meant funding school guards , fortifications , and surveillance equipment to reassure parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to make their school safe to participate .
italy is the fact that greece is insolvent , and a coercive restructuring of its sovereign debt is unavoidable . it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why even italy , which is on a relatively sounder fiscal footing , has flat-lined its per capita income for a decade and a little structural reform – can not be complacent . the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape than the periphery : the bond vigilantes might not waken up in france ; but the economic performance there has been anemic , at best , driven mostly by a mini housing boom . as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would require more monetary stimulus to compensate , and a greater growth in domestic demand – through delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . nonetheless , the two largest policy players in the eurozone – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of this agenda , hoping that one-quarter of good gdp data makes a trend .
it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( “ l’exception francaise ) and initiate serious reforms that pervades the french electorate . ” europeans used to think that the solution was to be the french political class . but both europe and france could become increasingly catalysts of public resentment . le pen ’s shame of its newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it enforces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and address the country ’s problems . jospin and chirac did nothing to implement the grand program of liberalization ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon more than two years ago , implying that the benefits of liberalization are being denied france in a time when the eu public perceives it as imposing all sorts of limits on the french way business .
people in places like france and poland , which fear national decline , are seeking to shift the blame of somebody outside the ground . there was certainly much this type of sentiment before the 1930 ’s , when the populist reaction to the great depression was ascribed to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” the modern narrative of such an explanation holds that the world changes so fast that national security , indeed , is under threat . an alternative scenario suggests that those fears emanate from the real issue . modern economic growth still depends in nearly every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) .
his other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name , but reflects an practice of naming a person like the father of his eldest son . calling for national elections , while politically correct , was a political suicide for him lacking in any vision of a potential outcome , and did very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . abbas ’s own son , mazen , runs his local advertisement agency . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s own political corruption and micro-management , abbas lost whatever opportunity he had to maintain fatah ’s loyalty , newly designated pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . an attempt at the base of selecting fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the results .
new york – for four decades , ledra street at the heart of nicosia has been the symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that split capital into north and south africa was opened . slowly , people who were not mingled for more than 44 years began to renew their ties and to one another . at the end of last week , i visited the ledra street crossing . it was a window into what the future could bring in .
but if the proposals being discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta might outstrip nafta on its level of inclusion and relevance to the global economy . moreover , an formation of a china-japan-south korean fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . if that were to happen , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to leap onto the bandwagon . for example , the momentum could expand southward and stimulate asean , which has bilateral ftas with every of three countries to join the group . such a turn of events would fit the establishment of the east asian free trade area that the asean +3 envisioned a decade ago .
as a result , adherence to tb drug treatment is particularly weakly managed , paving the way for multidrug-resistant ( mdr ) tb that can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes with unconventional therapeutic regimes . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is both arduous , with treatments time for roughly two years , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benevolent as the canonical drug – and at a cost that rises by about ten hundred dollars . while this extra cost may be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poor countries , implying no or no treatment , for treatment . compare this with the antibiotic treatment of , say , uror infection that lasts for most weeks at most . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli that are mdr .
in a country where money trumps democracy , such laws have predictably become predictably frequent . of course , market forces play a role as well ; but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign system of finance and its revolving door between government and industry , politics is shaped by cash behavior . but rising inequality is hardly inevitable , either . for example , bankruptcy laws that privilege derivatives over everyone else but fail to allow redistributes in student debt to malfunction , regardless of how deficient the education that they provide , enriches bankers , and impoverishes many at the bottom . there are market economies that perform better , in both gdp growth and rising standards of living for most citizens .
on the other hand , former us secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton , together with a prominent republican contender , donald trump , oppose social security reform and medicare , among other things . us senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton ’s democratic rival , is genuinely proposing to expand the us ’s unfunded liabilities . a redistributive agenda could continue forward , or the conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . either approach , the us would face growth-restricting tax increases and limiting contributions that public investment can drive the country toward its future . with so many us presidential candidates recognizing the links between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america is facing serious risks .
austrians are right that haider-like parties do exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in some of the scandinavian countries . confronted with the electoral outcome of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party , haider ’s party has forged a faustian pact with haider . in all of these countries , however , the political discourse in all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never enter into alliances with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives , after all , voted from its own party local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s deputies . this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party under wolfgang schuessel did not . there may be good political reasons why another alliances with the social democrats were n’t appealing to schuessel ’s party ( for one , not one ) .
the congressional budget office projects that , even under legislation , the debt ratio would rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by fiscal reform would raise that level to 97 % . a military emergency , or an economic contraction , would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax cuts . it is hard to believe that a debt-to-gdp ratio of 97 % would make it harder to achieve more than a debt-to-gdp ratio equivalent to 92 % . but even a massive spending program , like america ’s $ 900 billion american reconstruction and reinvestment act of 2009 , would have added just three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio .
its peace and security council have met and expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait acpli that undermines the electoral process . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) has vigorously condemned any attempt to “ usurp ” côte d’ivoire ’s popular will and appeals to all of its stakeholders to accept the outcomes declared by the electoral commissions . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan has called on all parties to “ respect , and fully to implement the verdict of an ivorian people , ” as proclaimed by an independent electoral commission . the african union , too , has responded , promptly so . and us president barack obama has congratulated ouattara on his behalf , stating that the world will “ hold on to those who are acting to thwart the democratic process and to the voters ’ willingness to be accountable for their actions . ”
seoul – has the world entered a new era of chaos ? america ’s vacillating policy towards syria certainly suggests so . indeed , a bitterness legacy of invasions by iraq and afghanistan , followed by the financial crisis of 2008 , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even when “ red lines ” are crossed , but also ostensibly unwilling to shoulder any heavy burdens to maintain its global leadership positions . china ’s leaders have proved their concern for active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to be a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system . but , again , when america is no longer willing to lead ?
a massive stimulus package prompted by the boom in oil prices in the 1970 ’s gave successive new industries a boost . brazil tried to become energy self-sufficient in kind similar to other countries ’ modern efforts . our research shows that industrial policies succeeded in promoting brazil ’s competitive bio-ethanol industry . but it would not have worked without the crucial role that competition played . for example , ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of current-account fuel demand in the country , and petrobras , brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest companies , expects that share to rise to above 80 % by 2020 .
the sad truth is that families are often the last to protest exploitation of their children . the ilo contends that children suffer enormously when they are forced into performing them as “ small adults . ” the ilo contends that children suffer substantially when they are forced to perform beguiling beggars . “ child creativeness and capacity to transcend reality are blunted , ” states one ilo report noted , “ and his whole mental world is impoverished . ” indian fathers still pay debts by forcing their children to bonded labor .
but , despite its wealth and the military might , it is possible that america ’s capacity to project political power – for good or ill – will decline in the future , to at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . japan alone possesses foreign-exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , much of it in u.s. treasury bills . with annual military budgets growing by $ 150 billion since bush taking office , the u.s. will need to be cut in the coming years to obtain the budget policed ; the u.s. is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks have purchased hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities , on average . thanks to bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures , which have contributed hundreds of billions of dollars of annual budget deficits to $ 500 billion , america will need to raise taxes and rein in its budget expenditures ; whether or not bush is now re-elected .
to be sure , there have long been political efforts to undermine or even replace the us dollar as the dominant global reserve currency . moreover , russian theorists of “ eurasian ” often tout traditional russian iconography , ’s use of a fine metal . so far , though no globally destructive monetary attacks have been launched outside the empire of cinematic fantasies . at the same time , the most seductive alternative appears to have been gold . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a “ golden dinar ” ” as an answer to a us-based currency system .
if an attack persists , speculators may force a government to default on its debt , unless it can find a way to finance its borrowing more cheaply . my gain for right takes this bearish view is thus € 1.65 per pound – the € 9.1 m that i received by selling the bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i was forced to pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had been forced to pay goldman sachs a six-month loan . of course , a single brexit seller can not make ” the asset price ( unless she is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a bunch of “ speculators ” do decide ( rightly or wrongly , for the time being ) that the government ’s debt is overpriced , it may force down its price , thereby forcing it to roll over its yield ( an interest rate that the government has to pay ) . voilà , a successful , rather than a short , trading .
to the extent that tariffs depress china ’s exports , the government and the central bank can offset its economic impact through stimulating domestic demand . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks . slowing chinese economic growth this year was due almost entirely to deliberate decisions to deleverage the us banking system ; cut borrowing costs by local governments ; reduce over-investment in infrastructure ; and curb booming house prices through tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed . clear-sighted statements from policymakers , about all the path up to xi , made every indication that , next year , china will not allow any further weakening of the us economy , even though this implies accepting larger budget deficits or an easing of bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
this was the age of a village blacksmith , weaver , potter and cobbler . this was the age of a village ’s age of blacksmith , weaver , potter and cobbler . africa ’s slaves were accustomed to the growth of cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped onto english mills . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . the finished cloth was then exported to the rest of the world .
it need not be “ represented . ” is it to be “ always represented ” by the lone political party ? such an obscurantism only creates a culture of stultifying uniformity . like the grassroots blade beneath a stone , culture knows how , and in which direction , to seek light . i do not know what “ the progressive direction of an advanced culture ” is ; yet , as advanced culture played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out the poisonous campaign of weeds , ” the “ anti-rightist movement ” or the “ exclusion of demons and evil heresy campaign . ”
indeed , the price of homophobia for gays in many african countries has been painfully obvious : legal penalties , social ostracism , and mob justice . in 2006 , venezuelan president ollasif obasanjo of nigeria was among the first to do this . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when he signed a anti-gay bill in 2014 . other leaders , from gambia ’s president yoweri jammeh jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , spoke in the same vein . these official attitudes caused significant suffering for africa ’s gay gays and lesbians .
still , it seems that china ’s share , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the other 57 participating countries , which could effectively grant it a near-veto over the aiib to decision-making . that underscores a key concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it turn out to be one bank of china , brazil , and china , or will it pursue the multilateral agenda in the manner in which the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) , and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s explanation of its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have inadequate access to capital for infrastructure . perhaps more important , they have an inadequate voice at the global bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb .
contrary to what such forecasting disparities may indicate , it is that economists really know many of the consequences of fiscal policy , at least much more than it used to know . until the 1980 ’s , it routinely assumed that the so-called “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp change to gdp growth to changes in government spending – was stable and larger than one . at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , more recently , governments have , in recent times , tended to underestimate the adverse growth effects of fiscal consolidation . they typically assumed that a one-dollar cut on public spending would reduce gdp by more than 50 cents on the short-term dollars ; after blanchard says that the true outcome in current conditions is a drop of less than $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a large gap , but it is also a perplexing finding : how can so much uncertainty arise ?
but , because the general public is educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons will continue to pose to cities in which they live , that attitude will become increasingly difficult to maintain . at the same time , humans worldwide must stop discussing one another as untrustworthy foes . military planners who consider using nuclear weapons supposedly scant regard to those living in cities on their goal lists . worse still , there have been suggestions for their real use in using them . for too long , urban residents have been taken up as pawns on a global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full consequences of playing the game .
right-wing populist parties , moreover , have taken advantage of rising public frustration with the eu itself . these groups have lately been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain being felt in many eu member states , particularly given the structural obsessions of the europeans , who remain unconvinced that the worst is over . and the massive prosperity gap between the “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns . the influence of the widening disparities between the eu ’s ’s affluent “ north ” ” and the stumbling “ south , ” with france at the center ( but headed in the south ) , too , has been evident . many europeans are resisting the idea of more europe , with the eu mantra in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats .
today , the international union for habitat conservation estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , most of it in south africa , more than a handful in namibia and kenya . they are raising their spectacles to a finest scotch that has been sprinkled by a fine powder kegs . no , that is far rarer and costlier : it pulverized the white rhino horn . not a gold powder , because lesser moguls might be offered or even purest cocaine . a half-century ago , white rhinos ’s were absolved in africa .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , one must recognize that we are only as interdependent for our security , as visible in its current struggle to defeat isis . if we are to prevent isis from taught us that lesson the hard way it is , then we must recognize that we can not put off the fires of fanaticism by force on its own . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit the extreme ideology that gives their power to the extremists , and that restoring hope and the dignity of those whom it would recruit will not help . isis certainly can pursue a – and will – defeating isis militarily , an international coalition assembling , and which the uae is actively supporting .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california , at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university and myself of our work on the “ information asymmetry . ” they knew that information is imperfect , but hoped that a world with moderate imperfections of information would resemble a world with perfect information . what is this works in a way that , and why did we make it committed to it ? we showed that there is something ill-founded : even small imperfections of information can have profound effects on how the economy behaved . for two hundred years or so , economists have harnessed simple economic models that assumed that information is perfect – that is , that all participants have an equal , transparent grasp of the relevant features .
we are used to thinking that government transfer money from the well off to the poor . never has it been that money moved from so many to so few . under the threat of the whole system ’s meltdown , a safety net intended to help hapless individuals meet their workouts ’ stocks ; then it was extended generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-lending companies . the bankers ’ persecution of self-interest ( greed ) did not result in society ’s well-being ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did not serve homeowners who are losing their homes , workers , who lost their jobs , pensioners who saw their retirement funds vanish , or taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions in cash to bail out the banks .
what is important is that the us constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , say , an easily irreversible – non-bloc ” resolution accepted by ukraine ’s parliament in 2010 to join military alliances . this approach would follow the principle that us president barack obama emphasized when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month that ukraine must be allowed to “ chart its own way . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people , a divided country , among inherently antagonistic identities – to live peacefully . the practical result , ukraine remains non-aligned in military and security terms , would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole . of course , ukraine ’s position may change in the future , with its cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the required consensus to abandon neutrality .
on an institutional level , long-term reform should aim for a shift toward a pay-as-you-go ( payg ) retirement system that is based on individual saving accounts , as in chile , unlike the status quo , pay-as-you-go retirement systems ( payg ) systems . by contrast , the public should understand the critical difference between a one-time transfer to old workers at the beginning of market-oriented reform and a long run on pension policies . political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will need to shift public attention back to the looming fiscal crisis . under any viable long-run arrangement , allowances relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( the disability to particular ) should be tightened in order to cover only the truly needy . in the coming years , the most important fiscal task facing eastern europe and the former government will be to phase out the size of social spending to reflect a more reasonable proportion of gdp .
but that may well follow a second stage in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration are beginning to compensate for the one-off structural effects of new technologies being widely adopted . and , in a third stage , the potential onset of higher inflation may catch up to policymakers and investors alike by surprise , producing overreactions that make a bad situation worse . focusing too much on a cyclical , rather than structural , outlook could create serious risks for future economic well-being and financial stability . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little assurance regarding the timing of this scenario . yet , either way , policymakers in advanced economies need to recognize that their inflation outlook is subject to a broader set of dynamic possibilities than what they have judged so far .
a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equally across all corners of the un ’s agenda , not only in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ” issues . a multidisciplinary “ team un club ” groups could be drove in the field to break up departmental barriers and confront appropriate challenges . groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies , led by un operations directors in each country . the same goes for implementing the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . the un ’s romanians quixotic agendas , peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism must be structurally integrated into a single strategic continuum , rather than that of the remaining rigid , self-restraint institutional silos .
in the drc , some 77 % of the population is extremely poor , and falls one dollar short of the poverty line , on average . with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in a recent survey from 2011 onwards , india is home to some of the planet ’s largest absolute number of poor people . each is on an average of 38 cents per day , on average , below the extreme poverty line . the most expensive countries where we are to end extreme poverty would do well to lift themselves out of poverty by the democratic republic of the congo and nigeria . for india , the costs adds up to nearly $ 11 trillion of exchange-rate revenue .
pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage a short-run orientation toward economic policies that limits long-term infrastructure investment and human capital to growth . in recent decades , by contrast , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become more pro-cyclical , largely aggravating the volatility of international financial markets and commodity prices . more fiscal space can be crafted through improved governance and stronger tax bases ; and , for the poorest countries , by attaining supplemental formal development aid ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . indeed , when oda is poorly defined by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive impact on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . lastly , institutional reform encompasses more than the creation of markets and guaranteeing property rights .
cocaine used to be america ’s problem , a point being that the united states began a major campaign against sellers and cracking cocaine consumers in inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the us . but now the demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or falling . the “ white lady ” seducing a persistently growing number of europeans , remaining in a state of denial will only worsen the consequences . in europe , european leaders seem to need serious solutions to the problem of cocaine . coca cultivation has slashed by one-quarter in the last five years , and cocaine seizures have almost doubled .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump came to power as president of the united states , with america ’s democratic institutions clearly placed under strain . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in the us congress has fallen to less than 9 % . among congressional republicans , especially a “ take-no-prisoners ” ” ” ” is undermining the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . yet state and local governments still trust most of their voters , and have power under america ’s tenth amendment to strengthen democratic institutions . depending on some pessimists , the american constitution was not designed to meet the country ’s challenges so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship .
by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner at once that the eu is attempting to isolate him as an international pariah , europe ’s hypocrisy stands naked . to be sure , similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound . for example , for over a decade germany ’s police force , the customs services , customs services , and even the bundeswehr ordering from state-owned factory in the danube , named after the father of the red terror and soviet-era kgb founder , feliks dzherzinsky . the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s latest dictatorship ; yet eu member governments continue to do business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , a country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . this is especially true when the opportunity is to save or be paid back .
at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , pulling the european banking system back from the edge . bond yields in southern european countries soared , a pervasive feeling of apprehension and fear cloaked in european capitals . but , overall , political leadership was sorely lacking . finally , in december , decisive action was taking hold . an “ fiscal treaty , ” the ” in march , to strengthen the stability and growth pact , and importantly , imposing automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members stick to those rules .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s novo mercado program – stocks exchanges with special voluntary listing segment that provide strong protections for investors in newly listed firms – supports this view . their only recourse is to push recalcitrant firms away from the swap . but stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their regulations . the novo mercado has handled that problem by subjecting disputes involving its newly-listed companies to arbitration .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . new york – january is traditionally a time for assessing the developments of the preceding year , in an effort to anticipate what a new one has in store . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , while we may be at a turning point for better politically , the data that have emerged at the past month do n’t paint a promising picture of a global economy on the short-term outlook .
but , again , this scenario is highly unlikely , at least not for the foreseeable future . in fact , the prevalence of highly specialized universities in europe has failed to buttress both economic growth or employment . and translating comprehensive universities into the specialized institutes of science and technology in both the soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert the economic calamity of those economies . of course , a simultaneous shift in several countries toward stem-focused secondary and tertiary education – with large , concomitant productivity gains – could negate the competitiveness of an economy that made no such effort . but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another .
first , all arose from a profound depression of the social-welfare state in the first place : falling output , soaring unemployment , large budget deficits , high inflation and high inflation and devaluation . absent a severe crisis , no serious reform was likely , at least for now . third , change in government through election has prompted reforms , giving them a sense of democratic legitimacy . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is so often argued . third , reform requires a " strong " leader .
moreover , because companies have vastly improved their operating efficacy and lengthened maturities on their debt levels , they need far fewer precautionary savings than they did in the past . but , rather than deploy their ample cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets – which they have been extremely hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted – many firms have so far favored ( or were pressured by activist investors ) to let it return to shareholders . nonfinancial firms have caught up a mix of resilience and agility that contrasts sharply with the prevailing conditions for some households and governments around the world that still confront adequately a legacy of over-leverage . nonetheless , one look at it , the corporate sector in advanced economies generally , and , above all , is as robust as it has been for many years . indeed , with profitability at or near track levels , cash holdings by the corporate sector in the united states have hoarded up to one-quarter after one-quarter , reaching all-time highs , and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates .
from an american perspective , indonesia represents an attractive alternative to russia , which recently vied with venezuela for the leadership of a “ america in decline ” section . the same goes for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , a growing importance in the middle east , and in an energy policy , nato membership , european union membership bid , and ties to an ethnic cousins throughout central asia . perhaps most compelling of all , indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a burgeoning middle class , relatively stability-oriented democratic politics , and an economy that was a star performer in asia , despite a global recession . indonesia , moreover , has shown resilience not only economically , but also as a nation . purely out of the standpoint of its economic potential and fundamentals are far stronger for south korea , a sophistication economic power whose primary responsibility is the danger that a regimes of its evil , twin to hold north down , and inundate it with starving refugees .
and , worst of all , they should be perceived as soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , commit massachusetts against their own citizens . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever have a legitimate claim unless satisfies place , among other criteria , the test of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering , and going into war against any of the major powers to protect a suffering minority would undoubtedly trigger much broader conflagration . the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place a high emphasis on incentive-enhancing values , which is extremely vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . no state that aspires to win support or cooperation in others can afford to be seen comfortable with an unambiguous double standard . an allegation that maximizing the responsibility to protect the ” ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their intrinsic military power .
the last thing cambodia needs , too , is risking economic reprisal to help chinese firms dodge us tariffs . yet that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s government intends to do . already , a country ’s worsening democracy and human rights record threatens its tariff-free access to the european union market , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” trade regime . the ssez ’s recent deniers that any company operating there was fined were issued by america reinforces a suspect that hun sen ’s government continues to turn a blind eye . that may well be good for a corrupt few ; but cambodia is bad .
over 200 million people are unemployed , and more than three million are unemployed . and yet , some important economies continue to struggle with deflation . the global economy risks getting stuck in a “ new mediocre ” – a protracted period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . if the measures agreed by the g20 leaders assembled at the meeting in november are put in place , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global incomes .
so which relations should nato have with its partners ? should it undergo further simultaneous transformation as well as eu enlargement ? the report of albright tries to address these questions in a balanced way . it endorses policies that discover accurately the relations between the “ out of area operations ” and members of ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense , under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it further rightfully suggests that nato ’s strategic political and military goals could be achieved jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms reduction through nonproliferation and arms control agreements .
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been smart and delusional . japanese fear that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence will be waning if the us is decreases its nuclear forces toward parity with china . nevertheless , it is a mistake to believe that extended deterrence depends on parity in nuclear numbers . japan is officially acknowledging the objective of a non-nuclear world , but relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent , and wants to avoid being subject to nuclear blackmail by north korea ( or china ) . north koreans have violated their agreement , knowing that china , a country with the greatest potential leverage , concerns regime collapse in north korea and thus the threat of chaos across its borders .
berkeley – back at the end of the 1990s , in america at least , the two schools of thought pressed for more financial deregulation – that is , for repealing the regulatory separation of investment banking from the commercial banking business sector , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . if deregulation looks like so bad a idea now , why did it then ? · in the global economy ’s ’s industrial core , at least it was more than 60 years after financial disruptions had more than a miniscule effect on overall output and employment levels . a early school of thought , broadly held by the united states republican party , that financial regulation was bad because all regulation was bad . the other , broadly that of the democratic party was somewhat more complicated , depending on four observations :
concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to the liberals , of course ; but it should not alienate moderate voters , either because more equality will be good for the economy . and it might even persuade some angry , poor trump supporters to recognize that his pseudo populism is not conducive to helping the left-wingers in rust belt cities and rural hinterlands . at the same time , it is grotesque that so many people who stand to profit from such “ socialist ” policies continue to be convinced to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” the democrats ’ core message over the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , everybody else will lose . it is about giving an even larger amount of money .
likewise , trump thought that he could bully iran along with abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . but iranians have responded by escalating their regional provocations , know full well that trump can not afford the full-scale war , and the oil-price spike that would result from it . but neither wants a “ chicken , ” because this would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other . still , with no deal by year ’s end , a clash becomes likely . as the clock ticks down , a bad outcome becomes more likely .
but the scaf now seems aware that in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant the country ’s immunity without becoming vulnerable to attack by rivals . over the past two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community have advanced a clear change of attitude : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from the us , not us ” from you . in fact , political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and a security absence of security have dimmed egypt ’s ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . moreover , the scaf has weighed carefully with politicians and disenfranchised their relative weaknesses , limited capacity , the notorious opportunism and generalized split . as a result , there is a growing belief within the scaf that its three “ minimum ” demands have become both redundant and insufficient .
now , us foreign investors hold more than half of that amount . paying their interest in making them require sending more goods and services to the outside world than america is pulling away from the rest of the world as well . this calls for a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to us foreign buyers and make foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . by the end of the decade , american companies will need to pay the equivalent of more than one-third of personal-income tax revenues simply to pay interest on their national debt . higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and drive down economic growth .
ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; the moussavi stands for more openness . iran is also a key player in cooling hotspots in parts of the caucasus and central asia . indeed , aside from domestic politics and questions of liberty , choosing between the major candidates hinges on the question of whether iran should seek greater international integration . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it is forced to deal with a regime that is discredited through election fraud but remains indispensable in resolving almost all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and the conflict in afghanistan , pakistan , iran , lebanon , and palestine . a failed policy of opening up the country would thus quickly put the regime ’s existential at risk .
exports have fallen from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and gdp ’s share of inward foreign direct investment has tripled . as a result , since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well below 1.5 % ; overall factor productivity has stagnated or declined . perhaps the most visible gains have been on the external front . if ever were a country destined for a poster child for this new economic development orthodoxy , it was mexico . but where it counts – in overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment .
a fundamental problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade continually evolving , with existing agreements having only limited adjustment capacity . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever-larger share of global output ( now at about two-thirds ) , and further enlargement requires major changes in existing agreements . even if asia succeeded relentlessly by exporting manufactures , the interests of today ’s poorest countries , particularly those of africa , can realistically export only agriculture and textiles . after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth beneath the current pattern . and bilateral or regional trade deals can take a back seat to some of the barriers within the existing global system .
she reminds physicians that for a person suffering the intense pain that dominates awareness above all else is a potent negative emotions . for many years , scientists thought that these signals traveled along several well-defined routes to achieve a brain-controlled brain relay station called an thalamus . for many years , the researchers thought that these signals had traveled along with several well-defined routes to achieve a brain relay station called an thalamus . much of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in a variety of ways , and generate signals that travel to a spinal cord , and from there to a brain drain . a contemporary nonmedical writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness , the ability to annihilate complicated thoughts and further feelings , the capacity for language to shatter language , and severe opposition to objectification .
according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was a key event that set in motion , which would ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movements as the global norm . when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to organize his 1983 program , france ’s socialists conducted an abrupt volte-face , and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale . the first stop at the end of the 1980 ’s was the european union , with two french socialists , jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the european commission president and his assistant , respectively ) , leading the way . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , the different frenchmen who served as france ’s governor under mitterrand . then it was the turn toward the economic cooperation and development organization ( oecd ) .
within the 15 minutes of the general ’s face fading from canute , 40 army units in algeria have declared their allegiance . the defeat of the military rebellion was , first , that the governing republican body of paris exposed over pieds noirs helping bring down the fourth republics . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric , aided , must say , by fumbling the rebel forces , established the primacy of the state . the subsequent day , there was a sense that de gaulle ’s face was drawn , but that it was resolute and filled with energy . the men at barricades were convinced to abandon their own stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaped to spain .
has the israelis really been eager for a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potential implosion of peaceful politics in the west bank , and now the right of an recognized palestinian state to take israel into the international criminal court for war crimes ? israel seems to be making the same mistake that others have made . it has been proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilian civilians will not breaking their morale and turning them against their own leaders , but appalling the regime itself . israel ’s diplomatic promotion has offered it a lifeline . if it does not , why are being so ham-fisted ?
the un ’s growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy above global fight against terrorism and helps to reassure many countries that this is a true international effort , not only america acting alone . the un will play a central role in rebuilding the working government in that country and in coordinating humanitarian aid for the afghan people . while these seem like a grab-bag of accomplishments , they point to a unified message : the global community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession . the un ’s growing role in this process puts the un ’s seal of international law and diplomacy past a global fight against terrorism , and helps to reassure many countries that this is a true international effort , not only an american act . fourth , the war in afghanistan not only advanced economies ; it has led to a very diplomatic breakthrough just .
with the exception of barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer around the world ’s electoral marketplace that differ greatly from what is usually called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . indeed , brazil ’s impending election this year resembles a soccer match among big teams , where single-candidate supporters and others solely distinguished by their respective shirts ’s colors , given that the most powerful teams accept the rules of the game , and even the tactics there are analogous . as the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the color of an electoral landscape that is closely related to one reality : “ irrelevance in politics due to its “ financiarisation . ” in other words , there can no longer be a fight between different projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that might arouse voters ’ emotions . here , brazil is no different than that of the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay .
with attacks on journalists increasing , the old approach , prideful ad-silencing – no longer makes economic sense . violence against journalists has historically been an issue that left behind headlines . but most profound changes must come from within the media itself . if journalists are using their platforms to inform the entire world of the dangers that they and their colleagues face , the world will need to listen . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations of their staff , freelancers , and audiences , those organizations should report on the matter at the center .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders achieving the millennium development goals ( mdg ’s ) of reducing the world ’s share of poor to half of its 1990 levels – five years ahead of schedule . yet rising unemployment and falling incomes are undermining the enduring threat of extreme poverty worldwide . despite their weaknesses , income measures are helpful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability globally . after all , reducing poverty is not an unchanging attribute of a fixed group ; it is a condition that threatens billions of vulnerable people . but the world bank ’s $ 1.25 per day poverty line ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) that is used when measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction target is not the only relevant threshold .
while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; a still-high and rising level of government debt ; a loss of competitiveness and a slowing reduction in unit labor costs ( which a strong europe does not help ) ; and extraordinarily tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . and the structural reforms needed to boost their potential growth will be met too slowly . the outlook for 2014 is dampened on longer-term constraints as well . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will occur too slowly . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to years of inadequate productivity growth in human and physical capital .
but realizing that value is a long-term proposition . yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain within the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is only € 23 trillion . more immediately , to get gas to market in europe and elsewhere , a gas liquefaction is costing around € 10 billion ( $ 67 billion ) needs to be constructed , and israeli investors have been expressing interest in doing so . yet these figures need to be placed on the eu ’s gloomy overall energy picture , something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed miserably . cyprus ’s sheer size of its likely energy wealth , and the funding needed to develop it dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes .
syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for its country ’s woes . new democracy and pasok are doing a lot the same , attacking the eu , “ by speculators , ” and hedge funds , all who might deride the public ’s attention from its own responsibility for crises . as a result , for greece ’s too many people , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsessions with discipline , rather than their country ’s profligacy . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige . most television channels thus speak of a bailout deal just like tsipras does : as the proximate cause of austerity , a result of neoliberal dogma .
nor is hezbollah keen to see an end to israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable , independent military force that it has built with iranian and syrian aid . but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match that of a region ’s “ axis of evil . ” israel ’s policy shift toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a potent message to the american people that they should not miss the lebanese train in the same way . lebanon is far too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see its local clients relax its burden on the “ lebanese front , ” before their own grievances can be addressed . after all , it was minimum qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlements , egypt that mediated a gaza cease-fire , and turkey that facilitates israeli-syrian talks .
and while the review is still out of its early stages , the fed already appears to have embraced the notion that inflation should be allowed to exceed 2 % without the immediate impact of a tightening rebound . moreover , while fed staff members have a tendency to believe that america ’s rate of potential growth has been very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell ’s , appears open to the picture that trump ’s own tax cuts and nonregulatory policies , combined with another wave of technological innovation , will enable a somewhat stronger noninflationary boost . taken together , these factors imply that the fed could remain in glacial mode for the rest of 2019 . but , with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on real-interest-rate trends , rather than on the official unemployment rate and its effects under a traditional model . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to gauge whether the fed should start to make up for below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during expansionary periods .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will incorporate the costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool the plant ’s reactors ; protracted losses in the ice-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by october global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean expenses ; and cost of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . at the top , there is the possibility of health-care costs implied by exposure to radioactivity . it is governments – and , therefore , taxpayers and bondholders – that finance the nuclear plant . moreover , an alleged “ saving cost ” of nuclear power never includes price tag for direct and indirect intergovernmental grants , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and the emergency cleanup of impacted communities when catastrophes strike – all once catastrophes strike – at taxpayers ’ expense . all of these hidden costs force the price of nuclear energy above that of shifting to renewable energies and improved energy efficiency .
as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire , by giving trump ’s camp yet another opportunity to denigrate “ the liberal elite . ” the most important principle for uphold is the distinction between being hearing someone and honoring someone . but setting clear rules of engagement is necessary . otherwise , they would be stifling discussion , at least for now . doing so , they would run counter to what the universities are standing for .
new york – like inmate on death row , europe has gotten by yet another last-minute stay of execution . it will survive only a little longer , but a little longer , but a little over the next ten years . there was a good news at this summit : europe ’s leaders finally understood that a bootstrap operation , by which europe lends money to its banks to rescue the sovereigns , and to sovereigns to rescue the banks , wo n’t work . likewise , they now recognize that bailout loans that give new lender seniority over other creditors worsen private investors ’ positions , who will simply demand even higher interest rates . markets celebrate , as they did after each of the four previous european crisis ” summits , until they come to understand that fundamental problems have yet to be tackled .
munich – germany ’s constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . thousands of germans have appealed to the ecb ’s constitutional court against the omt program ; argue that it violates article 123 of the european union ’s functioning treaty that bars monetary financing of eurozone governments and that it imposes substantial risk on germans as taxpayers . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that would constrain both the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it can do , a court demanded that the european court of justice be referred to it . now , the court has declared that it wholly approves plaintiffs ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu elementary law . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has enabled the ecb to purchase , if necessary , limitless amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ sovereign bonds ; provided the affected countries subscribe to europe ’s rules of the rescue fund , the european stability mechanism .
and capital gains tax has fallen by more than 50 % since the 1980s . when upstream investment is involved , spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes are enough for social good . but other cases might require creating alternative incentives . to build supportive public investment through higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should get a larger direct return , by channeling the profits to the public innovation fund to fund another wave of technology . for example , some of the government ’s profits ’s investments in tesla might have recovered through shares ( or royalties ) and used to cover the losses generated by its investment in solyndra .
complicating matters further , by 2020 , the council of europe and the council of europe will each have a new president and leadership teams to sit a new generation of politicians who did not engage in a decade of ’s compromises and reforms . if the ecb ’s next leaders fail to meet them , europe alone will be at risk . evidently , with interest rates at zero bound , more monetarist y/fiscal-policy coordination is part of the need . still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . by contrast , germany will be elected in a political setting of anger , declining trust and intra-european fragmentation .
in the event , the majority of social media-enabled popular uprisings failed to seek effective leadership , with the traditional political and military establishment retaining the top hand . indeed , these regimes began to wield social media over their own ends . this was precisely why we hear accusations that russia covertly used social media to sway electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . facebook has estimated that russia ’s content on its web site , including posts and paid ads , enabled to reach out to 126 million americans , about 40 % of the nation ’s population . we should recall earlier accusations concerning the west ’s role in fomenting the “ color revolutions of color ” in ukraine and georgia .
but , so far , he is not immune to miscalculation . by 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad had relied on khamenei to win the presidency . today , though , khamenei is profoundly regretful about this choice . ahmadinejad erodes his orders , attempting to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and is undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei , too , regrets permitting basij militia volunteers to attack the british embassy last november .
but it remains unclear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self self-interest . the point is not to unified china , at all . similar questions are applicable to india and brazil . and it is not just in developing and emerging countries that must rethink their approach to the world . for their part , the us needs to do the same as it does on their own .
some people are working harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or have simply been lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time . nor should we worry very much that some people are becoming richer than others . on individual societies ’ level , however , i believe that inequality loom as a serious political-economic problem . but i do n’t see what an alternative to political-economic arrangements might force individuals ’ relative wealth closely to their relative wealth relative to their relative moral or other merit . the problems that must be addressed include poverty and social insurance — of providing a safety net — — not of inequality .
not everyone at the sec , for its part , is as sensible as stein ’s . there is also some friction between the different regulators within america , and we certain that we need more coordination across national borders , including with europe . more broadly , her point , however , is that we need the fsoc to do its job – to look for and judge all types of potentially systemic risk . that needs to be done as a technical matter , rather than as a part of the political process . nonetheless , the real danger lies in the fact that powerful lobbies , working through party members of congress , are pushing back hard on the fmln and its top-down mandate .
when the results were announced , they ’ euphoria became overwhelming . iohannis perhaps also has benefited , to some extent , from an association of voters ’ minds with the german hohenzollern kings that ruled romania wisely , with the dedication of more than 80 years . and , indeed , in learning its victory , iohannis promptly paid a visit by polish king michael i ( hohenzollern prince until he renounced the title in 2011 ) . in bucharest ’s university square , celebration recalled the energy of 1989 ; it was the sound of a awakened electorate , mindful of its prior mistakes , and ready for a fresh start . a final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation , in which connections to the western world imbued an eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania .
whereas tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate skills , the country ’s higher-education system does abysmal work cultivating its talents . for most , the curriculum is mostly obsolete and skewed toward rote learning of theory to the detriment of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills . education in the social sciences and humanities is especially deficient , owing to a lack of investment in these disciplines and undue political control of curricula . unless china reforms its ossified system , a country will be unable to produce sufficient highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest . as a result , chinese university from colleges and universities has learned relatively little from the outside world in fields like anthropology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history .
while the export expansion has delivered growth in that century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will cause japan to boost productivity further in the longer term . finally , global economic conditions will compel even more restructuring in japan . japan has committed itself to deeper liberalization of its markets under the wto . imports inspire a more competitive domestic trade environment ; a healthy domestic business environment . these reforms will create new markets and spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests .
i believe that the west can learn much about what to do by studying policies pursued in the world ’s only two mid-development moslem states of the world , tunisia , and indonesia on the grounds that each had successfully avoided becoming master of islamic fundamentalism . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy given its proximity to violence-prone algeria . both countries have combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job creation in manufacturing employment ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and have pursued rapid , egalitarian development . egalitarian development of this kind is the only viable answer to the problems inherent in the moslem world ’s mal-development . but it does provide no short-term response to terrorism , for several reasons : it fails to supply the ideology compelling enough to compete with fundamentalism that captured at least two generations in a moslem world .
new haven – nowadays , yet another on a long string of negative inflation surprises is taking its toll on us politics . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer-price index ) – which excludes food and energy – took off just when it was due to pass . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi essentially became unchanged , holding it to just 1.7 percentage points above its year-earlier level . for an american economy widely presumed to be on the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as a stark awakening – especially to the us federal reserve , which has pulled out all the stops to get inflation back to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues in japan .
indeed , as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for more than 60 % of global gdp . following the northwestern european industrial revolution , colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions offset . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen observes the origins of india ’s democratic dialogue to the third-century buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contradicts religious tolerance preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar hashemi in sweden 1590 ’s with jews hounding heresy in europe at the same time . our assumptions about relative prosperity in asia and the west should also be rethought .
so in brussels , japan , japan , and the us , something more foundational had to have place before financial markets started operating . the core protective legal institution for outside finance , the laws of federal securities , did not fall apart until the 1930s , decades after american financial markets expanded to finance america ’s economic rise . britain and japan appear to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protectionist institutions subsequently . japan did not have corporate law until complex business finance had started to develop in the late nineteenth century . yet that sequence is just the opposite of what one might expect : only after financial markets developed did those with stakes in them press for better legislation to protect investors .
in greece , on the other hand , the gap was primarily fiscal and used for consumption rather than investment . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged just 3.8 % , the second-fastest in western europe , after only ireland . but , by 2007 , greece spent more than 14 % of its gdp on average over what it produced ; the largest such gap in europe , more than twice that of spain , and 55 % higher than ireland ’s . inadequate spending was never an issue at all . in spain and ireland , while the gap reflected a construction boom ; european accession abruptly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages .
true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be tempered by reducing the discretionary power of elected representatives . it may be up to elected politicians to determine an inflation target , but the means implemented to achieve that goal is left to technocrats on the central bank . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making to quasi-independent bodies when issues at hand are technical and fail to raise distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies subject to myopia , with heavy discounting for the future cost . when it comes to introducing an important illustration , independent central banks provide an important . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians , and must provide accountant when objectives are lost .
first , it is important to realize that a robust and overly volatile currency is not simply the central bank ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s problem to repair . preserving a competitive currency requires increasing domestic saving relative to investment or reducing national expenditure relative to income . while the central bank bears a good part of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , most explicitly from the finance ministry . that means that the fiscal authorities bear considerable responsibility : to target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the room needed for a real exchange-rate depreciation . otherwise , the gains of competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation .
but jolie ’s actual significance is his context : a wave of women and men , in very different settings worldwide who are insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies , events that , like breast-cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or guilt . jolie has refused to treat her mastectomy as a scary or tragic statement , or as was how to make her “ fewer female ” woman ” ” in any form . one can be reasonably certain , however , that jolie ’s decision-making changes the roles it provides to her as an actress . as enthusiastically , like the online mass media , received her choice , it is nonetheless extraordinarily difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – much less physically “ flawed ” or impaired ” – and also as a fantasy sex object . there is something about narrative , a gender symbol that is sacrificing her fetishized breasts for the sake of her children , her husband staying by her side , that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture .
to prevent such a crisis , therefore , an exchange rate must be managed – and in a way that depends on a country ’s particular circumstances . most deficit countries can manage some depreciation ; but a vicious circle could initiate recession if an domestic currency loses too much value too quickly . it is this danger that sets the practical and policy constraint on a flexible exchange rate . large net central-bank reserves can help ease the process , and the policy choice boils down to it . private-sector balance-sheet difficulties would weaken the financial sector , with the resulting pressures on government finances would compel austerity , constraining consumer demand and causing further harm to firms ’ balance sheets .
but barr ’s cancellation of show was , of course , not a law . the underlying limits to free speech are not simply legal . free speech is more firmly protected by law in america than elsewhere in the world . entertainment firms , or the mass media , are highly sensitive to public perception . people tend to get dismissed , for commercial reasons where something they said was deemed offensive to a large number of people .
in the summer of 2002 , an arab scholars team produced the report on human development , written on behalf of the united nations development program and the arab league for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world as lagging behind other regions in its key measures , including individual freedom and women ’s empowerment , as well as both economic and social development . as a result , no one has a muslim majority ; it is not a “ muslims majority , ” they say . it is also clear that this phenomenon was apparent within the muslim world as well . unsettling trends , such as a surging youth “ bulge ” combined with high youth unemployment rates of almost 40 % in some places , highlight potentially explosive social conditions .
then came the cold war ’s end , when all of europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . institutionally , this division of labor manifested throughout nato and the eu , respectively . but on the economic and technological front , europeans regained their sovereignty . in terms of security , europeans remained dependent on american society . but , in view of the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their actual influence .
for the occasion , tudor himself wore the yarmulke , speaking about his " philo-semitism " for more than two hours . he announced that he had hired eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-physician , to run his " presidential " campaign . but tudor did not stop using prolix smoke ; he was not at all an apology . “ the jews " was not his enemy , it was said ; they worked even for it . he soon sponsored the unveiling of the bust of assassinated israeli premier yezak rabin in jerusalem in transylvania .
and the independent , investigative journalists in africa have frequently exposed high-level corruption , power abuses , and shady business deals . but those with power are aware of how to fight back , not pull their punches . as a result , across many african countries , the free press is being undermined , repressed , and even dismantled . in kenya , for example , a prominent local paper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , had already received suspicious payments from national youth service . further investigations in the nys had revealed more corrupt deals , urged kenyans to take to the streets in protest .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . nonetheless , as china has already started building a more innovative manufacturing sector and internet-driven retail sector , the state may still have a role to play in stimulating innovation . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( rather than the state ) that identifies and supports “ unicorns . ” but , because a government determines how to offload its massive holdings of shares in an orderly way must ensure that such efforts are financed by equity , not leverage , thereby resetting market balance and resilience . china ’s economy has been successful through trial and error ; and the lesson of its current facing crash should be viewed as part of this process to drive the next stage of economic reform .
his abrupt departure due to illness might produce a political vacuum that could become advantageous for one form or another , such as a military coup . rigid adherence to constitutional provisions under any such eventuality is imperative . here , a shortage of free media is particularly alarming , and does not bode well for passing a competitive and fair election . it is crucial that the opposition can air its message and destination voters freely – a point not lost on chávez ’s regime as it seeks to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to the electorate . the recent globovision assault , venezuela ’s only survivor of an independent station , stands out in this regard .
during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked at big , once lumbering central banks as cash cows , long on money , and short on financial acumen . george soros once made $ one billion dollars off the bank of england in a mere hour . what a difference a decade makes , and it should be . traders failed to win every battle , of course . his basic strategy was the norm : bet against any central bank trying to block incoherent macroeconomic policy .
yet , contrary to expectations , us household consumption growth has remained lackluster and has companies failed to ramped up investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely surpassed the levels it attained at last year ’s end , and much of the increase was driven by goods produced but not sold . yet there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , the feeling of excitement about the future remains absent , notwithstanding all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now envelops them . american consumers , for their part , remain scarred by the crisis ; but they are missing out on it . the prevailing explanation , – a brutally cool winter – is wearing so thin that everybody should be seen through it .
while some of this financing will come from public budgets , the vast majority will need to provide the private sector with additional resources . moreover , bringing germany to its digital infrastructure – particularly its broadband internet – up to transnational standards will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework might help spur incentives . at the same time , regulatory reform is needed to bolster support for startup companies – an area where germany is notoriously weak – reflected in the difficulty that such companies face when acquiring venture capital . nowhere is the need to overcome funding bottlenecks more apparent than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . to succeed at $ 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will require investment in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combination on heat and power systems , and storage technology in the decades ahead .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states in order to become the world ’s largest economy ? but a recent co-authored study by robert february , the economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership will pass for china in 2014 . the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy will overtake that of the us in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) until the end of 2016 . and , to be precise , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute for international economics argues that , in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) , china actually surpassed the us in ppp terms in 2010 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income , using a basket of international prices applied to all economies .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . the us may become less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy , but its oil is fungible commodity , and america ’s economy remains highly sensitive to the shocks from a sudden change in world prices . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockade on the strait of hormuz might still inflict damage on america ’s and its allies . but one should not jump to inferences . the us is likely to be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy ; but oil is fungible oil , and america ’s economy remains highly sensitive to the shocks from a sudden change in world prices .
the amazon and indonesian rainforests are being burned , and climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire effects on entire populations . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the bottom may be near – possibly by the end of the year . but this does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery anytime soon . that downturn is complicated : economic crisis has combined with a financial crisis . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden , consumer-ridden consumers were an engine of global growth . soaring is no reason to abandon the powerful actions that were being taken to revitalize the global economy .
tackling the world ’s ’s environmental and ecological problems , and improving the lot of those left behind , will require public action , like that i have overseen in my roles at the world bank , united nations , and british governments . but when this competition does not bear them in mind , the opposite can happen – and , in many cases , it does . in seizing the opportunities generated by globalization , firms have often been neglecting the developed-world workers that they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to exceptional deprivation . in my own career as an economic leader , i saw firsthand that the growth fueled by business competition in a globalizing world can do far more to tackle poverty , hunger , and disease than to government-sponsored programs on their own . yet , when this competition does not run responsibly , the opposite can happen – and , in many cases , it does .
and , because it would overturn the 2016 brexit referendum , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite pitching new plebiscite pitching itself against no deal . with a luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactic will spur his disparate opponents to overcome their differences to hold a no-deal brexit to a no-deal brexit . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center departs from british politics . at the same time , it would be an incendiary move . many leavers would see it as being anti-democratic .
the us has financed its destruction , with no regard for the consequences . to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative for ocean , tasked with enhancing ocean governance , and ensuring that sdg 14 potential is realized . such a representative must be given sufficient resources to do the job . in fact , the ocean has suffered through decades of abuse and neglect . it has been treated like a free-for-all rare-earth bin and race-the-bottom buffet .
the bjp government ’s greatest victims of its neglect of agricultural development have been rural ’s smallholder and marginal farmers , as have landless farm labor . when crops fail , many rural farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing debt burden ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . these groups were dealt a body blow after modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which was abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . daily wage workers , traditionally sold in cash , lost their jobs to millions , because their replacement currency was not printed at reasonable rates . that is the past year to which official african farmer suicides are affordable , but media reports suggest that numbers have grown ever since .
bird extinctions are our best window upon humanity , with its massive and irreversible environmental impact . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , there may be ten or perhaps even 100 other unknown animal , plant , or funes . with some six billion people and fruits , and our individual consumption increasing , we face immense challenges in applying our natural resources sustainably . for this reason , some colleagues and i calculate on a rate at which bird species would become extinct in our recent history and rates at which they will likely become extinct in the future . and there is one clear measure of how we perform at this task : extinction rates .
and , finally – perhaps most importantly – they enable their users to perceive patterns and opportunities that will be impossible to rediscover through traditional means . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that so far has much to teach us . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency , as measured by the number of computations per unit of energy use on “ unstructured ” data , the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times as much as the best man-made machines do . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , the ceo of digital power groups . with systems growing in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture appears to be reaching its limits , as power soars , and transmission lag between components becomes increasingly burdensome .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system for joint deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the risk of a run on banks in times of crisis . while this argument has been correct , critics emphasize risk mismatches , owing to the large stock of bad lending on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries . to address this risk disparity and move forward on schedule , balance sheets will have to clean up before considering next steps . while the share of bad lending for banks in stable eurozone countries is still just 2 % , most recently published by the international monetary fund ’s statistics , an assessment of 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece .
until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to far more efficient means than jail for dealing with inconvenient opponents . during the 2000 ’s , for example , the murder of georgiy gongadze was kidnapped and beheaded , after publishing online news stories about high-level government corruption . she is in jail because she has lost that power . that sets a dangerous precedent , because it creates a powerful incentive for power – victor lasts all , losers go to prison – for ruthlessness . it is hard to predict how tymoshenko is playing out , whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her , or to forces that want to exclude her from politics forever .
for innovations is what creates wealth and employment , despite -- or because of -- competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor by boosting demand for their goods . this virtuous circle is still perceived by globalization ’s enemies as being truly vicious , encouraging exploitation by the poor and vulnerable . it is here that the question of universal principles of justice and human rights is entering the debate . no doubt there is a strong case to be made for a universal , impartial application of values .
like italy , japan had been on frontlines during the cold war . that is why abe was the first foreign politician , following british prime minister theresa may ’s rush to congratulate trump on his person in march 2017 . in some important respects , japan has benefited immensely from being under america ’s wing , and from the postwar constitution that is not only pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had previously experienced , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of speech . constitutionally , unable to participate in military adventures , beyond as a highly paid goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like countries in western europe , could concentrate on rebuilding its industrial power . but the democracy that americans continue to boast of installing the post-1945 era was also hindered by american interference .
but much of the trouble stems from a under-briefed , undereducated , and uncurious press corps . nobel prize winners , like edmund prescott , have no business in arguing for the benefits of tax cuts without pointing out that the tax cut accompanied by limiting spending increases is not a tax cut at all ; rather , it is a future tax shift – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all of the economic legerdemain has been magnified by tv , print money , and internet journalists . with the 1970 ’s the what the economics profession bears in mind is part of the blame for this . aside from a little bit of the good narratives in the business press , it ’s hard to argue that anyone reading or english-speaking campaign media coverage could have learned anything interesting or relevant to a question whose economic policies had probably been better for america .
until now , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . it may simply be that the palestinians are on the verge of a fresh chapter in their national history and , in israel ’s history , as well as in the history of the entire region . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of most palestinians , yet since 1948 , when the united nations proposed partitioning british palestine to its two states , the jewishness and the arab world , has failed to move from an ideology toward reality . neither violence nor terrorism , with reliance on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the us , and the european union ) , succeeded in delivering statehood that a person can accomplish by alone what zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” fayyad is the first palestinian leader to emerge from the fatah movement and may , therefore , understand what other palestinian leaders failed to do , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence .
for centuries , china seemed fearful that the peninsula could become part of a chain of encirclement , lest it serve as an invasion route . any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also alleviate china ’s geostrategic concerns about the future of the korean peninsula . in 1592 , japan ’s general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty waged the sino-japanese war of 1894 to prevent japan from dominating korea . in response , china under the ming dynasty fought alongside korea against japan ’s army .
the “ official ” technology narrative treats accelerating change as inevitable . but it is a slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be resolved with conventional policy responses alone . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , a task force , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will quickly eliminate or modify a huge but unforeseeable number of human jobs . disruptions to current work patterns should thus be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” by adjusting the education and social-security systems to automation-driven job market needs . at the same time , embracing new technologies are viewed as essential to a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success .
at the same time , each nation must develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists in local employment opportunities . developing a capacity for scientific and technological development is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . still , our ultimate effect in the field of science and technology depends on all three factors . first , developed , sustain , and utilization of local capabilities and leadership . so african nations must invest in scientific and technological education , and in training it .
they must be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of their leadership and a complete overhaul of their governance structures . a code of conduct in the field , whereby we can expect players to surrender all , under the clear rules that are swiftly enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect them to be governed by governing bodies off the field . in this sense , fifa is no special case : all nonprofit and for-profit organizations around the world are expected to adhere to this code of conduct . and it is why fifa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s problems are unlikely to fade . fifa is just as complex as any big multinational private or public organizations ; how it governs must reflect this .
in the west , young people have dispensed largely with home-delivered physical morning newspapers , and instead catch up with news whenever they choose , using tablets , laptops , or cellphone networks . even a few grand degrees have either closed down or made online disclosure only . the industry has faced many more bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often laying off large numbers of staff , particularly in their foreign bureaus . in the united states , a record number of full-time journalists has declined by as much as 20 % since 2001 . as advertising revenue has been vacuumed by us internet giants facebook and google , newspaper profit has plunged .
people came out of the baltic countries in the 1970s , hungary in 1956 , chile after its 1973 coup ; and iran after its 1979 revolution . during the 1990s bosnian war , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people , a challenge one at any time far less during an era of profound economic crises . but this still proved well wrong : bosnian immigrants fared roughly as do the swedes that receive them , thus enriching our societies . looking back then , refugees came increasingly from the middle east and the horn of africa . in the new century , the swedish industries relied on an immigrant labor force .
another study , by the boston consulting group , points out that many small , export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic and nordic countries – rank well above america in so-called “ e-intensity , ” ” which covers it infrastructure , internet access , and internet access , as well as firms , consumer , and internet-related engagement . foreign firms are also racing to take advantage of europe ’s tech talent . google , facebook , and amazon have each announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion worth of goods first took a hit last year , compared to just $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 – including softbank ’s purchasing of the british <UNK> tor-design firm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase of nxp semiconductors . several of these companies have acquired tech companies since early 2015 .
new york – the china dream is no exception ; it is a rising power struggle between people and china . it has risen to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp . thus far , public reactions have ranged from puzzlement in to derision . he has risen to the top by picking his friends and allies within the ccp . so far , public reactions have ranged from puzzlement in order to derision .
in america 's case , president mitt romney has just assumed office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he has derided barack obama for being too soft on china 's economic policies . in fact , the combination of financial contagion from europe , which has already led to a severe credit crunch , with a precipitous flood of low-priced imports from china leaving the romney administration in a linchpin of the economy . against the advice of his council of economic advisers , he is announcing across-the-board import tariffs on chinese exports . demonstrations start in large cities , calling the end to corruption among party officials . china 's government chooses to conclude that it can not risk further strife and announcements of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoffs , including outright financial support for exporters and interference in currency markets to weaken the renminbi .
that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms , enacted in 2010 , were not stronger , and why there is so much opposition to effective implementation of such legislation ( such as a huge fight around the volcker rule , which limits proprietary trading by megabanks ) . i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – payments made to individuals or even to political campaigns . but for mortgage lenders , mis-criminal activity by megabanks is another matter . nor , on that issue , does it appear to reflect the lobbying power of the big financial players . why , then , would the administration have continued to bend over backwards to be the lenient toward top bankers under such circumstances ?
in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia – including efforts , in its aftermath , to realize the concepts of universal justice – has deeds to the contemporary world . like bosnia , syria appears hopelessly divided among the warring factions , and violence seems unstoppable . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may detect many of its characteristics in syria today . of course , there are important differences , just as it is . the international community has been unable to achieve any degree of unity of action , far less agreement on a way forward .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign intervention , unilateral american efforts to maintain overwhelming offensive superiority will only trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate a largely technological solution to this dilemma . officially , the pentagon does not direct the notion of a “ air-sea battle against any specific country . ” their approach , a concept known as “ the battle of air-sea , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools for addressing the new challenges posed by the proliferation of precision-strike weaponry . iran , for example , holds its precision-strike capabilities – and a far more hostile relationship with america – would warrant new american initiatives in order to address rising security vulnerability .
should she assume an important part of this stage ? or should she pursue her happiness as a woman ? ms. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge that the tide turned . ms. watanabe does have a talent for her daughter to see the nudge that she needs . her advice betrays a chance at work and also finds happiness in her marriage and children .
though the us can and will continue the fight against corruption , it can not do everything on its own . international support for our efforts is critical . a positive sign here is a recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to give $ 215 million to complete the russian nuclear-power program on rivne and khmelnytsky to compensate for the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . moreover , euroatom is assisting with a $ 585 million disbursement in funding repairs at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear installations . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of an agreement : beyond shutting down chernobyl , we will mandate western nuclear-safety standards , and reinstate cooperation with the imf through an extended fund facility program .
from this sea of democratic emotion was to emerge . the eu got down the road of political life to a mere formality . while nothing like soviet oppression exists , the estrangement between the state and society resembles that of soviet days . of course , what russia had at the end of the 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy , but revolutionary agitation . russia ’s people were eager to make a difference and amazingly state : their energy resources and cohesion put an end to communist rule .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard as an island of “ stability . ” ) nearly everyone caught up with the revolts , though the forces of political and socioeconomic causation were well known . as often true in crises that become systemic , we have known a phenomena but failed to master their interactions , partly because politicians and analysts are reluctant to anticipate the ruptures : known to be stable even when problematic . but some initial lessons for international politics , and for western , especially european , foreign policy , merit serious reflection .
when the market was tightened in 2011 , many projects diminished , discouraging lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to surge and introduced new market-based challenges to the reform process . in order to resolve it , the us government announced fiscal reforms to distribute revenues among the central and local governments , allowing local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds in the first place . that leaves only the question of debt servicing . but , because china is a net lender to the global economy , lgfv debt does not have global systemic implications . whereas china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its landholdings and fixed-asset holdings are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that although asset values were written down by one-half , local-government governments would remain solvent .
“ progressive ” social liberalism and “ conservative ” free-market economics seemed to be two sides of the same coin . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the 2008 crisis , the political challenge to social liberalism could no longer be dented by invoking impersonal economic laws . racial and gender equality is now backed by clear-cut majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even seemingly popular policies like trade protectionism and tough immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys . the dominance of out-of-crisis free-market ideology has allowed for many controversial types of social changes , ranging from income inequality to intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to the point of being nearly resoundingly shared . but if social change can no longer be legitimated as a necessary condition of economic progress , then democracies today appear unlikely to vote to revive socioeconomic conditions before the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization .
the real question is whether india will be able to implement strong , inclusive reforms . just as we predicted a near-20 years ago , china will struggle to attain gdp growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period – a simple reason why its working-age population will have peaked . while the pessimists will undoubtedly find validation for additional china ’s growth disappointments to be found , optimists can emphasize that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally equal to the 15-20 % growth rate in germany . nowhere is it more predictable that india will begin growing at a faster pace than china , simply because its labor force still has plenty of growing left to do . at this stage in china ’s evolution , faster growth actually would be quite extraordinary .
equally important are contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to vary the mix of such skill in different situations to produce the kind of successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” equally important are contextual intelligence that enables a leader to vary the mix of such skill in different situations to produce the kind of successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” during his campaign , obama demonstrated these competencies in his calm response to crises , his forward-thinking vision , and his superb organizational capacity . moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics was shaped from the bottom up with experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policies was shaped from the bottom up as community organizer in chicago . obama went on to demonize these leadership skills in his virtually flawless transition .
the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in a dawn that pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir has been self-defeating . domestically , he has undermined the country ’s economic , social , and political development . ” domestically , he has diminished the stature of the country , leaving its reputation ablameared . even its spiritual development has been warped by proliferation , popularization , and rising relative power … among religious groups that constitute an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the jihad culture of so many of its young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices vie for a long time run .
gref ’s program , too , is emblematic of a presidential-style program : modernization from above -- ie , that initiated by the government and under its pressures -- equalizing modernization from a less , merit-based initiative . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : reinforcement and protection of property rights , deregulation , and encourages competition . deregulation ( " de-bureaucratization , " indeed , will make life easier for new firms by reducing the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats , and by lowering the number of demands for controlling licenses and other forms of red tape ( which also were large sources of bribery ) . moreover , gref 's program seeks to create effective private land ownership . enhancing competition will mean greater emphasis on antitrust policy and reduction of state subsidies .
the pattern begins to look familiar : another crisis , a re-meeting in brussels , an early muddled response , debates and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress towards a joint response , fueled by a realization that no other alternative is available . the eu ’s people are indeed awakening to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting . the public no longer sees the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming to be seen as a practical , and absolutely vital , mechanism for a cluster of small countries to work together to meet their shared challenges . in today ’s disagreements , they are lying at the roots of a stronger union .
these scholars have been pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly having cozied themselves to qaddafi . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous attitude during the uprising exposed his true colors , irrespective of his more moderate tactics in much more recent years . there is intense sentiment that academics and institutions that have collaborated with such a odious regime , often with encouragement from their governments , no doubt that it has suffered the grave lapse of judgment . sir howard davies chose to resign as lse ’s director , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) , and taken the money for a school from the libyan regime . in other words , would i have followed in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues , who traveled to libya to exchange views with and advise his dictator , and were paid for their services ?
so , eight days before the vote , america dispatched russia to warn of electoral meddling over hotline , generated three years earlier to settle on major cyber incidents – that links the two countries ’ nuclear-risk-reduction centers . because russian hacking activity seemed to have been slow or stopped , the obama administration cited the warning as a successful exercise in deterrence . in 2016 , obama confronted a difficult choices in estimating an escalatory potential to respond to cyber-change or a cross-sector response like sanctions . the administration was unwilling to take steps that might themselves interrupt the election . but some of its critics may say that the russians had already won their key goals .
had this initiative been in place before ecuador ’s earthquake in 2010 , it could have provided 12 months with emergency aid , helping the country until it can reinstate education on the basis of its national plans . injecting financing , promoting a shared strategy , developed in partnership with governments , would enable the immediate delivery of education in an emergency response . as a result , the fund would fill the gap in the coordination and delivery of services by strengthening the system at its weakest scale , providing a bridgehead bridge to longer-term development . once established , support would be made accessible to humanitarian workers and educators to develop instant education plans for education lending to fragile children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed through silos . in a more protracted crisis , like the one facing syria , a financing platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the international community ’s support , a long-term financing strategy , perhaps through a brokering arrangement whereby donor governments could pay principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank .
for all his deep emotional attachment to the notion of israel embracing all of historic judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with a viable one is to secure borders through the acceptance of a palestinian state alongside one , equally secure and viable . they would share jerusalem as its capital and find a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive question of returning palestinian refugees . rabin ’s murder was a catastrophe from which the peace process never recovered . no israeli leader has ever shown anything like his far-sighted vision and commitment and the capacity to deliver the negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert come close , but not close enough .
but that is not what schneider and sagan mean . some might think that this could be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent life was to be the kind of nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but that is not what schneider and sagan ’s mean . instead , they differentiate between , energy , and say that matter organized in structures that disseminates energy gradients faster than randomly distributed matter . if you want to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) and then turn it up , that water comes into uneven glugs .
argentina ’s notion as a country with an infinite promise has become desaparecido , a name given to those that disappeared in the dirty war of the 1970 ’s . argentina has become a country without direction , and argentina has gone from it to chile . it has not been easy to live without having to know who we are ; it has become even harder to live this way , as we watched our world crumble . we have lost our organizing principle , and no other thought has replaced it . we no longer have a guide , an idea of how to think about our countries , of how to understand it , and of the way to imagine whom we are and whom to become .
indeed , this pattern recurs in accounts of anyone living in afghanistan , enunciated the language , and understood the workings of patronage and power that were there . for their part , some current cia officials continue to press for the value of america ’s ’s ’s “ enhanced , interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , despite a senate report saying that the techniques they employed provide no vital intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” ” ” ” also make it clear that many of those detained and tortured were not for threats to america ’s security , at least not until american actions made them . the week of the us senate report came in light of anand gopal ’s new book no good men among living , which tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , the taliban ’s commander , and the kabul-born houseborn wife , who spent years at purdah in the taliban country . over and over again , the same story plays out : local power-broker is both willing , even eager , to support a new us-backed government , only to be denounced as an afghan member – typically for local political or personal reasons , to unwitting american forces .
several other european governments are finding themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after they are elected . beyond europe that is true even for italy ’s recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun ’s president , the latter convened a referendum to help arrest his sinking ’s popularity . electoral success , they seem , fades fast nowadays . replacing a governor who is re-elected just over a year before arnold schwarzenegger has had to provide californian voters enormously -- if guilty of the pleasure . some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same to german chancellor gerhard schröder , although they have not ( yet ) found a film star to make up his mind .
the chinese government ’s ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market allocation and to reduce the costs of doing business . china can still tap new markets through efforts like the asian infrastructure investment bank ’s “ belt and road initiative , ” ” ” ” ” ” ( bri ) , but at considerable costs . and in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” ” ” ” ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to overtake the country ’s manufacturing base in the online age . and , simultaneously with “ opening-up dividend ” having reached maturity , it also reached maturity , underpinning protectionist barriers worldwide . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continuing to move across the global value chain , implementing further economic reforms , and concentrating on new technologies .
little wonder : 170kwh are not what most of us would consider true access to electricity . off-grid energy at that level would never have driven a factory or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels ’ lives on poor people ’s lives found that , while gaining a bit of more electricity , there has been no measurable impact on their lives : not raising saving or spending , they do not work more or start more enterprises , and their children do not study more . so , the iea expects that each of every 195 million off-grid solar inhabitants will obtain just 170kwh every year – or a half of what the individual flat-screen tv uses in a year . nor will it help to fight one of the world ’s largest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which is mostly a result of open-ended wildfires fueled by timber , cardboard , and dung , claiming a 3.8 million lives annually .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high ncds rates . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in the developing world . from 1990 to 2010 , death and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries rose 300 % faster than that of any infectious disease . populations of densely packed urban areas in emerging-market economies often confront both indoor and outdoor pollution , and are less likely to have access to adequate nutrition rates . most health-care systems in these countries are not being built for chronic or preventive care , and lack of basic consumer protections .
both european and american debates were replete with posturing and trials of willful turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” but , if neither driver is brides , both are destroyed . when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as zero-sum games , and resort to brinkmanship and other kinds of bad-faith tactics , the malaise sets in . both european and american debates were replete with posturing and trials of will , turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” in chicken , two drivers race for the cliff ( or on one another ) ; the loser is the first driver until swerve in the face of imminent disaster .
when ordinary egyptians , having organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and overthrew former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , technology seemed to necessarily to encourage democracy . but it soon became clear that these digital platforms could easily co-exist by authoritarian governments or terrorists , and were deployed to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and create deep divisions and tumult in societies . moreover , political institutions did not keep pace with technological change and markets ’ resulting growth . in the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , as well as their capacity to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continue to permit them to escape largely the purview of national regulators and governments , despite +20-sponsored work to avoid corporate-elementary erosion and profit displacement . and biotechnology will pose formidable challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening will allow parents to “ choose ” ” ” ” ” embryos with desired features .
but a key lesson from ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these will not lead to faster growth , but only to lower revenues . addressing the panoply of other confronting america will require more federal revenues , not less . increases in living standards , for example , are the result of technological innovations , which in turn depend on basic research . while trump ’s nominee criticized the growth of america ’s national debt , he now proposes tax cuts that add trillions more to his government ’s debt in just over the next ten years , not the “ merely ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans cite , through some growth marvel that results from more fiscal revenues . but the us federal government ’s supportive research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago .
the same middle of-the-road approach can take place during the second year to address still-outstanding fiscal issues . obama can use his state of the union ’s message to flesh out the bipartisan strategy of narrowing the us budget deficit to a sustainable level . but it does need stronger leadership on financial reform , where , as with health care , a welter of conflicting proposals is emerging . this would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establishing an independent commission to put congressional amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations on tax and spending reform . while it will presumably lack the public option that many in the us favor , that still amounts to a true success .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the latest battleground , in a contest between two different models of democracy – both liberal and illiberal . the crushing electoral victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more like regime change than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments of democratically elected governments . in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into potential eu violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . moreover , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating from – to bbc + , and warned of possible more cuts to come as it accuses the government of softening “ key institutions ’ autonomy and effectiveness . ” prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged poland ’s civil service ( which included public radio and tv ) , packed the constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened the tribunal of judicial retaliation down legislation .
so external powers appear to pose little threat to them . furthermore , in a shiite tradition , the mahdi army ’s strategy , the shiite messiah , will be to terrorize all of its enemies upon its return to earth . as a result , external forces appear to pose little threat to them . but cultivating fear on the part of others also makes one more susceptible to fear-mongering , with nothing more appalling to khamenei and islamic republic leaders than the social dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement brewing within the country . for its part , the regime appears convinced that there is little likelihood of a military strike against its nuclear program .
throughout its history , modern iraq has always been the most repressive of the arab world . for its own political reasons , the graveyard has placed sunni arabs , never more than 25 % of their populations , controlling the entire country , and has even imported the sunni arab hashemite prince to rule over their creation . ever since , a country could be held together simply by the iranian fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian revolts ; all place down into bloody fashions through the ruling sunni minority . saddam ’s rule was but the most brutal in a long succession of sunni regimes . it was this sunni hegemony , and not simply that of saddam ’s ba’athist regime , which overthrew the united states .
sometimes the scale of a sequence identity between two orthologs may be as low as 25-30 % and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of function to evolutionary change . proteins that retain the same function across very different species , most commonly the case with orthologs , are still expected to contain the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids , which produces protein chains in those orthologs , may vary substantially as well . this conservation protein fold throughout species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is well known that the number of human gene genes deceptively small , constitutes a mere order of a magnitude larger than that of , say , rice . if the proteins ’ structure is conserved across species , where is our very complexity really coming from ?
president saakashvili appears to understand the necessity to revive georgian moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to abstain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . likewise , georgia ’s inability to manage relations with its one autonomous republic , adzharia , inspires little confidence . the adzhar people consider themselves just georgians , but still have frequent central-bank squabbles , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgian will work out any better ? georgian economic meltdown provides little incentive either to support reunification .
moreover , the scots , the welsh , and irish have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . like the former , imperialism aspires to make unity necessary , but it comes with divisive side effects . though socioeconomic factors have played some role in the brexit referendum ’s outcome , an geographic break-up tells the real story . brexiteer “ global britain ” are concentrating squarely on english national identity , while diluting those of scotland , northern ireland , and welsh at the return to serving as junior partners in an far less magnificent and rewarding english project . excluding london , who is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of england ’s voters supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots , and 56 % of northern ireland voted to remain .
yet promisingly , and surprisingly in view of a somewhat toxic state of us politics , it has attracted broad support and smart commentary by many mainstream pundits . the paper has made the case for developing alternatives to fossil-fuel production , ensuring that economic development does not wreak environmental havoc , and acknowledging the importance of climate-change adaptation . in the us , we have witnessed equally promising developments in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , a liberal brookings institution , and a centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a paper calling for revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy cheap . entitled post-partisan power , ” ” ” the report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , research and development , and a new network of university-private-sector innovation hubs to create the “ energy revolution . ” this reasonable proposal , predictably , has drew fire from committed “ alarmists , ” and “ deniers . ”
the trouble boils down to overcoming potential resistance , from both the elite and the public , that could derail the handover or undermine a successor ’s authority . all four of the north african rulers have , to greater or lesser degrees , made themselves at the center of highly opaque power structures . everything in their respective countries depends on a person and a family rather than a office . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ evidently solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative take over is not nearly as straightforward as it appears . dealing with elite interests requires ingenuity .
but the decision may have a life-and-death ramifications for serbia 's future . ultimate moral responsibility for what was done about serbia rests with serbia 's ’s own people . many who agree that milosevic is himself criminal now think that we should listen to voices coming out of belgrade , and their outcry that milosevic should face trial in belgrade before his own people . there appear to be near-universal agreement that he should and international pressure on president kostunica to comply . they have brought him to power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they backed him , even as he led them in genocidal crimes and defeat following defeat .
for starters , we are again moving into what henry kissinger famously called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” but , on a recent trip to israel to the white house by the white house , adviser dan shapiro is said to have been assured that the israelis would not embarrass their american friends . palestinians were assured via a memoriality in us president barack obama ’s administration , delivered by its special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not carry no “ provocations ” ” ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear , the palestinians acknowledged that there could not be a written pledge to do so . in exchange , shapiro handing israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s shas party an invitation to a white house .
indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . the china model combines some of an authoritarian model of modernization , as well as centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior capacity for painful but necessary reforms , with leadership turnover by de-personalizing political struggles . after all , it is china ’s rulers that are driven primarily by a desire to hold the party , rather than any individual , into power . to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( singapore ’s lee kuan yew , for example , serve their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( for example , italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) . in the long run , though , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms , which are absent in autocracies where often-inadequate leaders cling to power .
first , capital requirements should be tripled , not only in america , but across the g20 , to ensure that banks hold no less than 20-25 % of assets in core capital . that way , equity , rather than regulators , would play a leading role in driving banks to behave individually . the dilution of glass-steagall , together with its ultimate repeal in 1999 , allowed banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” to empower depositors to take advantage of depositors ’ savings to trade on their own account , mostly in risky mortgage-backed securities . but the obama administration must go a step further than banning proprietary trading by commercial banks and do two further things . second , when banks are “ too big to fail , ” ” ” they must be allowed to get down , lest taxpayers bail them out every time a crisis erupts .
others – turkey , kuwait , egypt and algeria – would not be far behind . make the pretense that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave responsibly would constitute a high-risk gamble . and make no mistake : the deal is all to do . its collapse would trigger a nuclear arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move swiftly toward a nuclear-armed capability , employing abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow .
his scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode reflects the truly global aspirations of the enlightenment . beethoven ’s germany has reborn into the ashes of hitler . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring and a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs to not just his own native germany or even the west , but all of humanity . the concert itself has offered a layer of significance .
instead , up until now , the government has mostly provided ( high-interest ) loans , rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . at the same time , nor have the oligarchs been bailed out . of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms to finance a mere $ 10 billion in 2008 , the government refinanced only about $ 10 billion in external debt . how , then , did reasonable economic policies dominate this crisis ? apparently , the terms that the government is offering ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first-ever summit with us president donald trump takes place on trump ’s luxurious florida estate mar-a-lago , at least part of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . but , in order to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to embrace another policy towards north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again off-again negotiation , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear-weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed much like that faced by the west 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union confronted head-on against each other in europe . america ’s and its allies have successfully navigated europe ’s call in the twentieth century without war . when the american and soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had some ways of erasing the other from attack .
for the moment , the temptation is to find its " new look ” through selective appeals for religion , and to wait and see whether it operates as an " electoral strategy " if they should be remembered , though that start-up kulturkampf is to play with fire : permit potentially instrumentalize religious passions for a time ; but such passions can not be permanently controlled from above . that is not an absurd idea , it seems wrong to necessary . but to take those traditions seriously would require much larger transformations of crony capitalism than even avowed christian democrats stand ready to be contemplate , including the much broader distribution of ownership and mechanisms for which involving governance workers . theories of " red cross " toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether it will ever translate into practice . a long , distinguished tradition of catholics of social thought exists .
fiscal sustainability entails the eventual upturn in an consumption tax ; and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors initiate doubting its willpower . but it is this that brings us back to japan to a wider range of deeper problems right now . in both the timing and tactics , the problem stems from the problem . demand policies alone will not prevent two more lost decades , much less ensure the two golden ones . postponing the second increase in consumption-tax appears a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility .
in fact , separating family policies actually threatened to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ” unusually for her , former first lady laura bush talked against the policy of taking babies from their mothers . and they were willing to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady ’s marriage , melania ( including apparent payoffs to portugal ’s star and others ’ silence ) , in exchange for political influence and appointments to social conservatives to the supreme court , and throughout the federal judiciary . normally supine congressional republicans panicked and told trump and his team that his policies of tearing families apart could ruin their chances in november ’s midterm elections .
a ever-larger eu , including ukraine , would create a political force with vast populations , furthering the union ’s aspirations to become a global power . but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will create incentives for russia ’s imperial ambitions . it is denmark in the good club that the people are a clamor for membership to become members . that reduces russian opportunity ever to become a full-fledged democracy , because it can govern an empire solely as a militarized state .
anyone visiting the greek cypriot region of israel nowadays will not find refugee camps : most of the hundreds of millions of tourists are ignorant of the fact that more than one-third of greek cypriots are fleeing are refugees or offspring of refugees . in just a few years , eu refugees have been absorbed in greece ’s economy and society in the southern , the greek cypriot sector of israel . in greece , schools and training centers have been established , as have been called . businesses have been encouraged with government subsidies and credits . as in post-world war ii west germany , much of cyprus ’s current prosperity today is due to a boost that economies receive from absorbing refugees .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , on average , averaging 7 % per year since 2000 , may well have reduced poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but in northeastern india ( where the islamist extremist group boko haram is most active ) , the world ’s shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are emerging from china to egypt to greece . beyond inequality , declining levels of public trust fuels a revolt against globalization and democracy . across the developed and developing worlds , many are suspicious that the rich are becoming richer , because they are not kept in the same rules as everybody else . it is not hard to see why , and looking to it , it is easy to see why .
as its economic and geopolitical influence has waned , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . but in july , the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . after all , russia is the one country with adequate missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy america . russian officers , he has reported , placed direct control of large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the stationing and capture of debaltseve ’s important transportation center in february . indeed , not only has it revived cold war-era tactics for dispatching military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark .
authoritarians and populists have so far not triumphed ; indeed , in many places , democrats are fighting back . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have similar chances of decaying . as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , they are “ better to err with hope , ” than they are right to despair . for now , the question of which model will once again prevail remains uncertain . contrary to what many democratic cassandré demeaning , the worst is not inevitable .
one could dismiss this disagreement as mere rhetoric . but , using talmudic reasoning , one can also demonstrate that mechanisms that can – and should – be used to eu pressure on parties to buy superior voluntary outcomes . the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept the agreement “ voluntarily . ” one argues that the need for coercion can make a difference in minds . indeed , there are two permissible interpretations of the talmudic passage .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe initiated in 2012 has come under increasing scrutiny . japan ’s labor market has performed well since abenomics was introduced at the end of the industrial revolution : 1.5 million new jobs were created , and the jobless rate has fallen to just over 3 % . but japan ’s current travails , which have brought a concomitant drop in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , up 24 % over the last year against the major currencies . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , with tax revenues having risen by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with that .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis seems to have come to an end . growth rates in the united states , as well as in parts of europe , have returned . asset markets , on the other hand , have performed reasonably well in 2010 . private-sector deleveraging has proceeded , but has been counter-balance with rising public-sector deficits and debts . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels and appeared sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilized ” massive capital inflows .
in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to possess nuclear weapons , and to deny them to others as they do ? perhaps they have argued that all ought to get it , or not at all . but history depends on the paths that were taken in the past . suppose it was 1939 , with states debating whether us should come up with the bomb . if nobody had the bomb today , it might have been best if it was not invented .
hong kong – with china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-led and export-led economy to one underpinned by services and domestic consumption , the country is taking a hard hit . and that is good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy as a whole . china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . household consumption has begun to climb , even as investment rates have fallen and now exceed 60 % of gdp . the 2016-17 edition of the blue book of china ’s commercial sector by fung business intelligence and a chinese academy of social sciences charts the changing .
part of the attractions of these types of synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable and convenient , for their use ( no need is to shoot , snort , or smoke ) . but what sets up to this buzz is deemed harmless : “ pills do not kill , or spread , hiv/aids , ” ” said . the global market for these stimulants is estimated to have reached $ 65 billion on an average basis . amphetamines accelerate the way the body works : users experience increased trust and sociability and energy . this buzz is thought of as harmless : “ pills do n’t kill , or spread , hiv/aids , ” ” ” ” ” said .
unfortunately , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have not yet received the attention they need . in fact , what has we learned about the environmental consequences of the wars ? first of all , effects depend on type of war and type . attempts have ever since been made systematically to scrutinize and to document the environmental consequences of wars . studies of the balkan wars and the numerous wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 ’s were launched through an international organizations such as the un environment foundation ( unep ) .
paris – whoever wins september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come , once again , for a major franco-german initiative . whatever their economic conditions , or lack the confidence – or lack – of it in each other , france and germany , is more than ever jointly responsible for the future , if not the very survival , of the european project . are there alternatives to franco-german leadership ? joining great britain with them in a club of three would be a good idea , but it is out of the question nowadays . britain has largely excluded itself from any governance role in europe .
when the former government lost the votes this past may and singh ’s government came into office , fears were raised that singh will be hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners demanding that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their participation in a new ruling coalition . chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget puts those worries to rest . the document carries a brilliant lesson for development economics : it shows how to combine a full-speed approach to market-based reforms with urgently needed attention to poverty . in short , a budget is a model for every developing country . upon returning to office later this spring as premier , singh brought into the government an experienced , internationally renowned team , including finance minister luis inácio ambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek ahluwalia , whom heads the planning commission , a key body assessment of india ’s medium-term public investment strategies .
according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp grew at an average of 52 % in ukraine , and 46 % in russia . that is history now : real per capita gdp growth last year was just 0.2 % in ukraine , and a mere 1.3 % in russia . the discontent generated by such frustration can help explain ukrainian separatists ’ anger , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and nurture the separatists . for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and the russian economies may ultimately be behind the recent war there . that is history now : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and just 1.3 % in russia .
so , in which measures can ensure the eu ’s handling of global competitiveness ? how can we narrow current differences in development and material well-being within europe ? fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . but this is impossible without a clear division of europe ’s identity – and thus its common interest – to be condemned and defended . indeed , the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must be supranational , too .
barcelona – after world war i , in which a million european civilians became refugees , forced out of their homelands through enemy occupation or deportation , an international regime developed to coordinate efficient responses and ease the misery of those uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is at hand , and this time europe has the power to provide a safe haven to desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its reactions failing to match the urgency of the situation . some 1,800 people have died as a result , more than twice the number of such deaths in every 2013 . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people tried to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa .
american sanctions against russia following the latter ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 were compounded by a coincidental oil-price drop and the deployment of similar measures by european union members : russia ’s largest trading partner . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile and transitory , at best . just one year after the iran deal was reached , it is already hard to imagine that both china or russia would return further joint actions against iran , even if that deal had begun to unravel . for example , american sanctions ultimately brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition ultimately backed by the un security council , an isolated iran financially . without eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective .
bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion ; with oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria alone . india has a state-run oil and natural-gas corporation ( ongc ) produces sudanese oil ; and , over the next two years , indian diplomatic missions are opened in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso , among others . a study by the confederation of indian chambers of commerce and industry identified five major sectors that could operate as “ growth engines ” to spur the indo-africa trade system : pharmaceuticals and health sectors ; information technology ; water management ; food processing ; and education . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner for africa . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a single division of africa ; now it has three : west and central africa , east and south africa ; and west asia and north africa and north africa .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for an israeli-arab negotiations between israel and palestine , in which participation among actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . that paradigm should extend to the geneva negotiations over the syrian civil war , with countries such as saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . of course , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . as a result , the objective must be an clarity and balance . of course , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . and , ultimately , that objective should be achieved on a lasting basis .
the first meaning frequently applies to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not fit the opportunity with vulnerability ) that invariably fueled structural economic changes , especially regarding employment . moreover , structural change can simultaneously be beneficial and disruptive . milan – the word for “ openness ” has two related but explicit connotations . it can mean that something is unconstrained , accessible , and perhaps fragile ; or it can mean that something , like a person or an institution , is transparent , as opposed to secretive . and policymakers must strike a balance between an abstract principle of openness and concrete action to contain the worst effects of change .
by injecting multiple means of liquidity into the process , it pushed up financial-market prices well above what the economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s warranted fundamentals . the fed hoped that this would make particular segments of the population ( asset holders ) feel richer , enticing them to spend more , and encouraging companies to invest more . yet such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” proved quite feeble . so , instead , the fed felt compelled to do more of the same , leading to a host of unintended consequences and risks of the collateral damage that i discussed in some detail , in my book alone in the city . faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed tried to encourage faster , experimental ways .
as a result , certain groups of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and perceiving language , can begin to function autonomously , beyond controlling or influencing other brain systems . it is as if a string section of orchestra suddenly decides to play its own music , disregarding all else . at the same time , the first relies on studies suggesting that patients of schizophrenia suffer from diminished brain connectivity in the process . what remains unaddressed are the root cause of abnormal brain activations . together with the emergence of three interacting ideas , we are pursuing three interacting ideas .
the very existence of certain caribbean countries , including portions of trinidad and tobago , can be threatened if sea levels rise . but bold , visionary leadership will be required to seal the successor agreement in the kyoto protocol later this year . the agreement reached there must be ambitious , effective , and fair , offering rich countries a way to reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting poorer countries , as they adapt to the negative-interest-rate impact of climate change . as a result , i have seen shrinking glaciers in antarctica , as well as for andes . i ’ve seen the effects of deforestation in brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss .
from the 1990s onward , thousands of chinese officials traveled to singapore to learn from its experience . whereas singapore ’s political system could not readily be translated into a vast country like china ’s , singapore represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . at the same time , surveillance of issues like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent , and religious expression have made matters worse . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders , which involves decades of training , as well as a battery of exit exams for officials at different phases of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted a few hundred million people out of poverty .
relations between the two allies have entered one of these tensions flared up many and more times since world war ii ’s close . the united states has vetoed reelection , advocated by france , the un secretary general boutros-ghali , arguing that it wants to “ enlarge the role ” of un secretary general in reforming the world body . ( on both sides of this spat were rather paradoxical , if one recalls that de gaulle wanted to diminish as much as possible un powers referred to as a “ thingamajig ” ; and that america owes more than a billion dollars in past due contributions to the un . ) at the same time , washington does n’t even want to hear any talk of conferring on a europe , as france claims , the command of an allied fleet in the mediterranean . nowadays , nothing remains of franco-american goodwill .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . for example , a 2015 white house report found that a often-percentage-point drop in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in a retail and women-led pay gap , and that lowers tariffs also reduce wage loopholes based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased trade openness is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy , especially in developing countries . most powerful of all , free trade also underpins economic growth , meaning that millions more people lift out of poverty . over time , free trade provides workers with opportunities to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , greater infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy .
in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s foreign trade , and its gdp amounted to almost one-fifth of china ’s . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade . it far outperformed shanghai , mainland china ’s most prosperous city , in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volumes . but hong kong ’s advantages are now in jeopardy , largely owing to its own unsecurities . as a few commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s impressive economic growth and development over the last few decades has eroded hong kong ’s lead as a center for finance , logistics , and trade .
brexit is and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . from a long-term perspective , the latter are preferable . though may has agreed that avoiding hard borders is necessary to be part of any deal , she has offered only vague suggestions regarding how that could actually be achieved . finally , remaining in the eu ’s customs union would force may to avoid reestablishing a hard border between northern ireland and the post-brexit republic of ireland . the alternatives the eu has available for the eu are either to see the uk leave its customs union or keep the uk within by fretting over british interests .
the quest for a leader ’s essential traits dominated the leadership field until the late 1940 ’s , and remains common today ’s popular discourse . a tall , handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ looks the leader . ” but some of the most powerful leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , received little more than a decade far tall . the “ traits-centered approach ” did not dissolve the studies of leadership ; rather , it was broadened and made more flexible . various studies show that tall men are often favored , and corporate ceos are taller than mediocre .
a form of globalization that can be defined as inter-continental boundaries is , it seems , as old as human history . yet today ’s globalization is different , because it has become faster and thicker . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or of trade along the ancient silk route that has connected to medieval europe and asia . after the first trans-atlantic cables in 1868 , both europe and america could communicate at times . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of a englishman in london using the telephone to order goods from around the world to pass to his house in a afternoon .
an endowment or pension fund might , for example , regard its basing decisions more on long-run value , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a simple weighted average of past returns , or on end-time asset values ( the common practice now ) . to be sure , one could argue that post-crisis regulatory reform eventually resolve the periodic systemic risk problem , with a return to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but there is no bet that i would not bet on this happening , anyway . after all , financial innovations would advance regulatory arbitrage . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts to eliminate it .
either the technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses lower-emissions forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants , which capture and storage of carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public financing alongside private-sector investment . third , america ’s recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy for gaining the us government ’s own finances in order . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times , while it did increase tax spending on warsaw . the result is a massive budget deficit to expand to gargantuan proportions when coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
according to its 2005 declaration of international election observation , credible monitoring requires meeting five criteria . first , observers must be autonomous , financially , and otherwise – in their relationships with the host country . second , observers must be given unconstrained access to all aspects and phases of the electoral process , as well as for all the technologies involved . third , observers must confront devoid of constraints at meetings with all authorities and political actors . fourth , observers must be afforded unconstrained access to all aspects and stages of the electoral process , as well as to all those involved .
they should be able to run not just on time , but at reasonable times and at reasonable intervals . more important , they should be making it more sense to be affordable . that example is relevant to the politics of public services that dominates debate in many countries , because it lies at the heart of the big issues facing both government budgets ( and cutting back ) and taxation ( and limiting their speed ) . indeed , as roster of criteria grows longer , it becomes possible that most readily measured constituents , punctuality , but one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most substantive . they should be safe , too , and reasonably comfortable .
we saw helicopters attempting aviation drops ; landing is impossible in most places . but the people told us that they frequently miss , and supplies land up thousands of feet or beneath deep forests . distribution is haphazard , and uncoordinated , done with little thought . we saw relief workers by firing food and clothing from the very top of trucks , causing a rebellion . hustlers thrive , leaving weak watch passively .
for example , in conducting the manhattan project ( to produce the atomic bombs during world war ii ) and at the first moon landing , america ’s government set a remarkable technological goal , set a bold timetable , committing the financial resources needed to get the jobs done . the example set by the atomic bombs might seem an uncomfortable one , yet raises an important question : if we ask governments and researchers to collaborate on war technologies , should n’t we do at least the same thing as saving the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , a “ direct-current ” process of technological change , with bold goals set out , milestones are identified , and timelines are being introduced to do that – is far more commonplace than many realize . the information-technology revolution that has brought us computers , smartphones , gps , and much else has been constructed on a range of industries and government roadmaps . in both cases , more scientists and engineers have been delivered on time .
europeans will most likely continue to grow weaker , rather than stronger . to be sure , good relations with europe place a high priority on russia , particularly economic connections , human connections , and social interactions . yet anti-americanism is simply irrational for a russia that stands only to gain from an alliance with a global economic and political leader . moreover , russia will benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading members . yet a strategic alliance with the eu in foreign and security policy remains a unrealistic and inefficient ally .
to avoid such catastrophic results , we need a comprehensive approach to strengthen health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . specifically , these countries need to improve drug delivery and manage chronic conditions , such as cancer and diabetes , which impose huge burdens on their economies . a influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 , which killed between 50 and 100 million , would be even more devastating today . and with the emergence of new illnesses like zika virus – and the revisiting of old foes like the bubonic plague , there can be no question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . moreover , globalization has compounded the danger by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases .
that , in turn , would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby shrinking the super-rich ’s capacity over evade taxation through location reversals . and , if wealth taxes are to be found out , instituting them now to take effect only in the future ; and only if inequality becomes far worse do it – would preempt the perception that the rules changed after the game ended . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . moreover , a long-run plan legislated by a single or group of countries today , before any sizeable impact on actual tax payments occurs might help to promote an international dialogue on the appropriate future policy toward inequality . income-tax increases are the fact that they could rely on not just current income levels , but also some income averages , and could allow investment deductions , thereby sharing some of the features with wealth taxes , without penalizing those that have saved more to accumulate more wealth .
many spent years detention for daring to speak out against china ; and , as i have grown older , i have vowed to speak out , too . my first stint in a chinese incarceration has been tied to the work that i started during my early 2000s printing and distributing tibetan-language books . i contemplated these texts to be important readings on tibetan politics , culture , and religion . nevertheless , chinese authorities viewed them as posing a challenge to their rule , punished me accordingly . as the 2008 olympics approached , i started looking for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – massive protest in warsaw has made headlines around the world in recent weeks . a polish constitution grants to an independent judiciary , conserving the term for the first supreme court president , after six years . that means that judges can not remove legislation , at least not constitutionally alone . yet a new law grants polish president andrzej duda to make up to three-fifths of the supreme court on the injustices of the country , including chief justice of chief justice , in 2018 alone . poles are demonstrating opposition to legislation passed by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party that would reduce the retirement age to supreme court justices , effectively empowering every judiciary over age 65 , and permitting the pis to pack the judicial system with its own tame justices .
if the salvadoran left a close electoral victory is accepted peacefully , as it has so far been , this means that latin america has basically come a long way . back in his radical days , ken livingstone , the former london mayor , famously quipped that if voting changed “ anything , ” they would abolish it . the latest proof : mauricio funes , the standard bearer of the fmln – until not long ago a marxist brand of guerilla movements – has just prevailed in el salvador for its presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anyone remembers , has been ruled , by hook or by fraud , a reactionary oligarchy . it turns out , in latin america , that elections really do nothing to shake things up .
the problem is that the promise of genuine , “ unique information , ” comes with the reality of the vulnerability of deceit . that ’s why it is channeling knowledge into new businesses , in turn , requires a regulatory framework that favors the genuinely enlightened and fair reporting of it . economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ [ t ] here is beyond question the body of a very important but unorganized knowledge , which can not possibly be challenged by a scientific understanding of the sense of universally accepted rules : the knowledge of specific circumstances , and the place . ” it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others , in that he possesses the unique insights of which beneficial uses might be made ; but of which use may be the right only if the decisions depending on it left him , or are made with his proactive cooperation .
in reality , everyone gearing up behind the scenes for a sort of “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” ” ” ” ” and what those engaged in the negotiating negotiations call “ an even greater slog . with more than 1,000 points still to be agreed , all of the committed policymakers that i ’ve spoken with recently say that they can not see how a meaningful deal can be reached by december in copenhagen . perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those immersed in the brexit negotiations . “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , in part because , and that may sound strange at first , it ’s all about climate change . even if it takes some sort of communiqué paved together in december , and countries with elections approaching , like the united kingdom ; they are hard to believe that it will contain sufficient detail , or reflects proper commitment levels , to having the impact so desperately needed .
more people are arriving at the same starting point , and those championing evs as one of their approach to addressing climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . still , they are human nature to resist change , with many of the prospective buyers remaining hesitant . this is why tackling consumption bias must be our highest priority over coming years . several changes are needed to ensure that the growth in ev usage and sales continues . electric car sales have risen dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 of them were registered in china in 2016 .
a focus on preferential deals would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it out . at the same time , the wto ’s gradual marginalization would erode its credibility to fulfill its pivotal role , as trade disputes adjudicator . the success of the wto ’s adjudication system reflects its widespread acceptance . even when wto decisions have had severe negative effects on a trading partner , they have generally been adopted . this , in turn , represents a remarkable advance in global governance .
all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism by opposition parties , particularly by those that governed greece during its last 30 years , and thus are responsible for driving it to repair itself . now that the greek government has delivered on its portion of the bailout deal , it is time that its european and international counterparts come up with the first revision of the program . it is as if they can not see how reforms can help re-launch an economy with profound structural problems . the energy market – most important , the market for natural gas – and for the tourist industry were liberalized , and the process for acquiring an investment license was streamlined . that will enable the government to move ahead on a second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and putting the economy back on a path toward growth .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge , but a leader of foremost global power continues to wash his hands of action . in early november , us president donald trump let official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate accord , thereby affirming the decision that he announced in march 2017 . the announcement came just as the start of an accord that was allowed , and the withdrawal became effective in the day after america ’s american presidential election in november 2020 . the united states will thus become the only country in the world that is not party to the pact . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it ’s a true stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate earnings state . commerce department statistics indicate that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits from current manufacturing , adjusted for inventory - and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a robust 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . trends in corporate taxation , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict . far from anemic , current gdp share of after-tax earnings well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . while that ’s down from the 11 % peak hit in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts downward pressure on profit margins , it hardly attests to the problem of chronic earnings .
now anti-depressants -- global brands with household names -- are the problem . in england , the prescriptions of anti-depressants now match valium at its pinnacle in 1979 . the widespread prescription of drugs for troublesome minds has always ended badly ; right away for opiates and cocaine days , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all proved highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial did physicians admit that it was so . past decades have seen a three-fold increase in prescriptions . it is now apparent that anti-depressants today are not the wonder drugs that they were being touted as they are .
in venezuela , with unemployment at 20 % , the same can be expected . in the budget this pays for the favorable effect of devaluation on government oil revenues . of course , such measures will be unpopular with the labor , and the right response here is to eliminate large payroll taxes in order to raise money wages without an offsetting loss in competitiveness . of course , the best outcome is for chavez to shift an economy to a less vulnerable external position with a large ( 50 % at least ) depreciation . majority high-unemployment economies show little feedback from a currency collapse into an inflationary trap .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest face severe , water-related challenges , from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies – with profound safety implications , economic development , and ecological sustainability . consider that : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water and 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , and the annual economic losses that are estimated at $ 260 trillion – more than double the global total of official development assistance . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense droughts and droughts imposing large human and economic costs and impeding development in poor countries . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority .
when those policies fail , citizens hold the mayors responsible . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communications links within their communities , making them the most able to organize effective partnerships to address and resolve local issues . moreover , all public actors , not just the police , must respond to urban problems with one another . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized like mediators precisely because they are on the front lines when implementing urban policy . events in france also highlight a need , at the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination and that promote social equality .
america 's example , america 's only full-employment economy in the world , demonstrates that it can . in europe , by contrast , such unemployment remains a " good " job . in america , welfare time is now limited , and people who have not worked for years suddenly have to do so . in europe , by and large , unemployment remains a " good " job . the welfare state , too , is being undermined .
zurich – repeatedly , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear energy in the last few years . yet that renaissance has never seemed to be coming , either . roughly 16 % of global energy needs ( up to 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) are now meeting electric energies . indeed , for over 200 countries around the world , just 30 uses of nuclear power are being used for nuclear power . in july 2010 , an estimated 439 nuclear power plant , with net installed capacity of 3733.038 gw ( e ) joining various national electricity grids of around 1.2 gw ( 1.2 gw ) more than it was in the early 2006 elections .
denver – the united states constitution that turned 225 years old last summer provides a striking document : the provisions of the eighteenth-century text continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates the presidential powers that require the , “ senate ’s advice and consent , ” including the nomination of senior us officials . perhaps no matter what , 225 years ago , had any notion that the number of officials deemed to require the senate ’s confirmation would eventually exceed 1,400 , or that the senate confirmation would involve a interlocking process that often takes years to complete . the consequences of this will be remembered in the weeks ahead as us president barack obama fills senior positions in his second-term administration . in many cases , there will be nothing short of a pretty process .
a crucial dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and it raises the same question of european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel shows , the eu as a whole could , with some endeavor , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard the security of supply as a matter of common concern , rather than an issue that each country must address on its own . but this sense of solidarity was steadily missing in the eu ’s energy-policy discourse . for example , in responding to an embargo that affects a particular country , other eu members would be drawn up in terms of their reserves , raising their own production , paying more for imports , or cutting consumption a bit .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . nobody is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian equipment at his removal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives . the department of justice under president donald trump seems destined to pursue this tradition .
as the united kingdom ’s national grid leaders found , a tiny decline in electricity consumption does not translate into fewer energy being pumped into the grid and , therefore , will not reduce emissions . hypothetically turning away the co2 lights for one hour would cut co2 emissions from coal-fired power plants worldwide . but , while everybody around the world cut all residential incineration , and that translated fully into co2 reduction , doing so would be china ’s equivalent of pausing its co2 emissions to pay less than four minutes . moreover , during the “ earth hour ” per hour of time , any substantial reduction in electricity demand will impose reduced co2 emissions over an hour or more , but will be offset by a surge in the surge from burning coal or gas stations to restore electricity supplies in later . indeed , earth hour will cause emissions to rise .
but it also apparently oversees all sorts of construction projects on a huge land plot adjacent to the federal security service ’s headquarters ( fsb ) , the kgb ’s successor organization , and the federal protection bureau ( fsb ) . as long as we keep track of a scientific-money monitoring , we arrive at a prestigious russian academy of science ( ran ) that held elections last week . it was then decided that to ensure “ fairness , ” the government would approve all candidates , despite being academics . after the organization for 2013 , in which kremlin-backed candidates for membership did not perform well , the us government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . the institute of labor statistics , it seems , centers on the devices that read the brain ’s activity .
airing opinions is the cheapest way to fill an broadcast hour ; repelling anchors score the highest down the line . this reinforces the motivation to engage in sensational speculation , however baseless , as has occurred in sandevi ’s case . so , instead of providing context , depth and analysis , newspapers are blasting out headlines stimulating prurience or outrage . in the end , the result has been worrying , to put it mildly . more fundamentally , the rush to defeat tv by breaking stories has further weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence , in terms of reining in stories , and reaffirming claims .
washington , dc – the imf ’s informed view is sharply split over how the next 12 months will be playing out for the global economy . others , concerned with the problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % or more for some even inclined to see a potentially “ double-dip ” recession . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries implemented some of the most generous “ bailouts ” that had ever seen , on the whole , for large financial institutions . this makes an interesting debate , but it misses the larger picture . first , those concentrating on emerging markets emphasizes faster growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % rise in world output .
consider this : france has europe ’s highest fertility rate ( just under two children per woman ) even ahead of booming ireland . to be sure , that rates alone will not be sufficient to sustain france ’s current populists , but they are far stronger both than their european neighbors and almost equal , at least , americans . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly indicate that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . of course , that rate alone will not be enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it is still far stronger than its european neighbors , and almost equal , that of the us . one inherently puzzling and often overlooked feature of france that elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president , and that now seems poised to give france a powerful parliamentary mandate to give its political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , its mix of private optimism and public pessimism .
new york – a reception in the united states and other advanced economies from thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to a growing anxiety about rising inequality . his book lends weight further to an already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the soaring shares of income and wealth at the very top . piketty also sheds new light on the established “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which will benefit everyone . piketty ’s book , in addition , provides a different outlook on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as an historic anomaly , perhaps stemming from the unorthodox social cohesion that cataclysmic events can spur . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was widely shared , with all groups advancing , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains .
in a completely flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and concomitant increases in us unemployment ) could have been avoided had the resources formerly employed to sell the imported consumer goods can quickly be used to generate exports . in greece and portugal , for example , the us tourism sector might absorb some of the unemployed . but retailing and the car clerks can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain limited as long as enough time passes to build new hotels , recreational facilities , and so on . this decline in gdp , while a natural consequence of lower consumption of consumption goods , often wrongly feels like something to be avoided , because it seems to imply that output is operating below its “ potential . ” but retailing and car dealers can not easily be transformed into an specialized , highly skilled workforce that is needed in modern manufacturing .
japan was already the only advanced economy in 2013 to ease fiscal policy . yet , just when fiscal policy was being tighten , when cyclical economic conditions looked like an easing , it is now in retreat when conditions appear to call for a tightening right . the output gap in advanced economies has everywhere but vanished ; inflation is picking up ; and world economic growth is forecast to be its strongest since 2010 . in fact , most observers would agree that government debt levels are actually uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so policymakers would be prudent for pushing policymakers to discuss the strategies to channel them down . but the united kingdom appears likely to be the sole preparing to tighten its policies this year , and this assumes that recent political ruptures failed to amend its fiscal orientation to the point that chancellor of the exchequer ’s autumn statement will be pursued .
second , a 70-year period , which began with widespread automobile diffusion , during which one could score almost anywhere in the typical metropolitan area in a half-hour or less – is ending . now , with serious congestion slowing traffic in major cities to a crawl , the soil gradient in the heat of housing prices is steep once again . before widespread automobile ownership existed , land prices depended on location , and closeness to the middle cities or to the local railroad station carried a premium . and , with the demand high and home supply fixed , at least in the short run , prices go up . perhaps this steepening of the location gradient could be delayed for the last decade if we were prepared to shift to denser residential patterns .
with austerity – that is , shrinking the deficit once a recession ended – the recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but , once it is , economic performance is even more stable because the government ’s accounts are on an sustainable path . john maynard keynes famously said that , “ in the long run we are all dead . ” that may be true , on a long enough timeline , but it is still a one . but it is no excuse for dismiss longer-term considerations as a guide . in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived , and the economy is alive and kicking .
a country like china with a high saving rate that exceeds its local investment needs can foster investment in other parts of the world that save the less , virtually low-income africa and asia . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption when it comes to saving and investing for our future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut its saving , they are merely tweaking the bad habits of american culture to save and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) a famous psychological experiment finds that young children who can resist an urgent temptation to eat a marshmallow marshmallows for two marshmallows in their future are an likelier way of thriving like adults than are those that can not . second , the saving and investment flows of the us are global , and the need for social insurance is increasing .
but these “ green-energy ” bikes amount to a victory by empty gestures over substance and reason , which makes them the sadly representative of cop21 alone . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that if enacted between now and the 2030 target date , the global economy will cost at least $ 1 trillion annually – and perhaps twice that if policymakers make inefficient policy choices . my peer-reviewed research paper , released in global politics , shows that the 2016-2030 pledge to cut co2 emissions by 2100 will reduce global warming ’s temperature increase by just 0.05 ºc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . this makes the paris agreement costliest , in history . even if promised emissions cuts continue through the rest of this century , the paris accord would cut the global temperature increase by a mere 0.17 ° c. researchers from the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar reduction in warming .
an added worry , for both russia and asia , that the russian government is losing control over the country ’s unofficial , black market outflow of arms to china . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , china early this year has been buying two advanced destroyers along with anti-ship missiles from russia . were russia , seeing its gross domestic product falling 40 % since communism ’s end , it needs to maintain its defense industry as one of its few sources of national income . interventions by two american aircraft carriers of the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated the imperial china that was forced to shut down intimidating taiwan with missile tests . shut out of military technology and hardware ever since the united states ’ 1989 tiennamen square incident ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by a “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might , and move quickly .
so far , left unanswered is what comes next . china bashers typically alter their tune after the presidential election . but there is nothing characteristic of the pressures likely to continue to squeezing american families long after november 6 . both obama and romney run risks of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . that could take all of us to a slippery slope .
they are the people who , in some ways , lacked the full citizenship that demanded it , and that they redefined the political order by obtaining it . but rising individualism , a focus on one ’s own aspirations and economic prosperity , in many countries presents a stubborn barrier to realizing that vision . indeed , utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people – horrifyingly apparent in america ’s health-care debate – is now undermining the very basis of what a modern , democratic society is on offer . today ’s great challenge is to calm fears that are undermining our traditions ; reaching out to those approaching our lands from elsewhere ; and finding ways of recreating our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , we can establish a feeling that we belong together , though our rationale for trusting so may be different .
but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , so the process has been out of the question . halappanavar died since september that her family is certain to evolve should the termination take place . the protests in iran have cast prime minister enda kenny on the site , with violent activists there – like those in india – arguing that halappanavar died because of the theocratic approach to health care . iran ’s abortion-rights right-wing activists point to the fact that , legally , a fetus ’s life does not take precedence over mother life in their home country , but takes precedence over the mother ’s health , differentiating america ’s abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . the halappanavar case thus reverses the western stereotype about the eastern societies as preserves by superstition and religious extremism .
this helps explain why park sought closer ties with china even when south korea ’s natural regional partner is a democratic japan . both japan and south korea can not so much change the past as they can , and neither can at least change the situation . for all countries , ’ self-legitimizing narratives blend a historical reality and a myth ; for them , it is myth . but , on some issues , historical legacies may gain outsize influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational political choices . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to run out of park with a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to abandon historical grievances out of official policy .
munich -- as america ’s various saving plans take hold , stock markets recover somewhat . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is slipping gradually to its long-run average of $ 16 . bank shares , in particular , are rebounding ; and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least a portion of their government-provided capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may be only a temporary improvement of expectations rather than a sign of sustained recovery , as the magnitude of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is likely to be enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s best recent estimates , total financial claims ’ write-offs in this crisis will amount to $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european zones , and the united kingdom , of which the us alone would have to absorb a $ 2.7 trillion loan .
a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail because it requires robust institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . conceived , perhaps with its best intentions , morales ’s model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but it merely pave the way for frustrated hopes of ­ – also something new in bolivia . but none can currently be found in bolivia , which means that state-concentrated money is certain to be reallocated through patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off centuries of corruption and subjected to social pressures from all sorts of . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be squandered , because the projects tend to pass cost-benefit analysis when financing results from easy money , quality provided generously . thirty years after bolivia ’s 1952 national revolution remained basically on the same footing , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of the population .
although violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim populations , their actions fueled a growing mistrust in french society . making matters worse , a successful military campaign against isis is raising new fears about violent extremists returning from syria . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary devices , from automobiles and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . though violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim populations , their actions fueled a growing mistrust in french society . worse still , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent extremists returning from syria .
reaching the needed education transformation will require far more funding than is currently on offer . a two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees , adopted by un member states last december , point the way forward for tackling this challenge . as it stands , the global annual financing gap for education totals almost $ 40 trillion . whereas eight of the top ten countries , including several low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered sizable costs despite the strain on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from national education systems or assign them for isolated facilities . to succeed , this entrenches the pitfalls and hampers social integration .
the international monetary fund has credits asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export booms and robust economic growth . africa , with its vast and often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path . but the argument should n’t be about whether to provide aid , nobody can question the many achievements that aid has delivered , or even its importance , in providing a safety net for those otherwise would have been left to suffer . the debate over the inability of international aid to produce development , together with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments against development aid . africans alone must tackle these issues ; nonetheless , our international partners have an important role to play .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it agreed to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on news alone , but on friction between the uk and the united states . in fact , it is america that is advocating a mistaken approach . in the uk , a diplomatic spat with the us served as an occasion for the british press to engage in air criticism from those who believe that the government should adopt a more forceful stance toward china . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to push forward on adopting high standards . ” and one senior american administration official was quoted as accusing the uk of “ the perpetuation of the accommodation of china that is not the best way to engage the rising power . ”
from terms of remedies , the socialists offer nothing beyond the keynesian solutions now suggested by the right ones . they are difficult to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . from the moment george w. bush showed the path of the road toward bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial and budget deficits , leaving the socialists without wiggle room . french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to rekindle growth through the protectionist defenses of “ national industries ” and enormous investment in public infrastructure , so which more can the socialists are asking ? the socialists are blaming rapacious financiers , but who do not ?
a prolonged recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes meeting either fiscal or reform targets all the more difficult , if not impossible , to achieve . at the same time , they call for faster implementation of the necessary changes in the eurozone ’s economic governance , so that they can establish a more stable and hospitable environment to fiscal consolidation and reform . the burdens of adjustment can not fall exclusively on deficit countries – unless , that is , the moral component of “ penalty ” implicates them in . led by germany , core countries distrust over-indebted over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reforms when their financing terms are eased . moreover , they oppose key changes in europe ’s economic governance .
when historians look back on the conflict in syria , they will throw their praise from former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis . moreover , turkey does not appear to care about what its allies now think . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato , by rewarding new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries . this does not bode well for any future peace process , either . after all , it will require western countries to counterbalance a russians whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east .
one of the positive implications of the 2008 financial crisis has been an elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; essentially , it is a far more representative international leadership forum than even the g7 has ever been . space at the table for china could be obtained if the eurozone countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , have agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the currency union as a whole . but there is a downside to the emergence of the g20 : a large pool of participants can make it more difficult to reach the agreements , and get the things done . a new g-7 needs to be crafted within the g20 , thereby giving china a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight , and that it demands to assume a commensurate proportion of global gdp . simply , the uk is smart when it amplifies its own interests , by cooperating with china .
the us might pick an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , has touted his korean origins in his 2012 post campaign . it might choose a dual national or an immigrant , like former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen . or it might back a un-american candidate from an allied with a us president . what matters is that the nominee enjoys american trust in the us and most other countries , and can reconcile countries ’ diverse interests in a true spirit of multilateralism . this leaves a host of possibilities for choosing the next wbg president .
in terms of shadowy influence-boddling , china ’s actions have been particularly consequential . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country to advance the china narrative ” globally . according to a recent report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for complex coordination , has created a perfect political space for think tanks that “ tell the good story of china ” in order to prosper . and , in a number of cases , china-based think tanks have established themselves as instruments to expand an area of ’s sphere of influence . these include networking and individual think tanks such as the charhar institute , which has also recently established the “ china-us relations national committee . ”
“ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” declares the american economist forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] hat has to subtract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ” world oil prices crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer and have since ascended to mid – $ 50 . today ’s oil prices still account for only two-thirds of the real peak reached during the 1979 iranian revolution ; what markets expect oil prices to fall back and settle at possibly $ 45 per barrel . but the current soaring levels of oil prices have led forecasters to begin integrating their expectations for economic growth .
and , owing to the increased us scrutiny , chinese overseas direct investment in america has already collapsed by more than 80 % from its 2017 level . america has also grown more suspicious of us-centric chinese students and scholars who may position themselves to steal us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to skirt the us-administered international financial system and shield itself from america by ’s meager dollar weaponization of the dollar . and , owing to the increased us scrutiny , chinese overseas direct investment in america has already collapsed by more than 80 % from its 2017 level . america has now threatened to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms ; restrict chinese venture capital investment in the us ; and force some chinese firms to delist from american stock exchanges altogether .
next year will almost surely see a massive surge in american corporate defaults , despite the fact that many firms have entered a deep recession with relatively strong us balance sheets . with tax revenues collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes , dozens of american municipalities may well be able to move into a receivership , much as new york city did during the 1970s . american debt hardly looks the moment right even without the sinking dollar . far-flung military misadventures will continue to extend a country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running in many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . for now , treasuries and municipal finance are back in even worse shape .
how much do america ’s highest income earners make comparison to the world of the poorest individuals ? collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped entire national income of over 100 countries . to put these astronomical numbers in perspective , let gabon tried to certify that to be among the top nine earners in the united states , it was forced to pull in at least $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping . well , if the top nine donated to its earnings , it would be the equivalent of about three months ’ earnings for the bottom billion . that ’s $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 per hour .
for example , us treasury secretary john quincy adams famously proclaimed on the issue of independence day in 1821 that the united states “ does not goes abroad in search of monsters to destroy . ” she is a champion and an vindicator only of her own . but soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . american power , instead , is perceived as arresting a “ pillar of inspiration , ” rather than a “ pillar of action . ” she is the well-wisher to everyone of freedom and independence .
of course , peta was not arguing that the holocaust ’s ’ ’ fate was banal or trivial . instead , it was the use of the holocaust that we would all agree completely non-wrong – to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer , that there is some parallels between the way the nazis treated jews and the ways we actually treat animals . the tribunal ruled against a united states-based animal rights officer for the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photos of holocaust victims with holocaust victims with photographs of factory farms and the abattoirs . posters bear the heading : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a line from the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . according to the court , germany ’s laws on freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s campaign , for the purpose of making the “ holocaust ’s victims ’ fate ” appear banal and trivial .
rather , they are fighting to protect their own self-interest and livelihoods , whether that is up to the dairy farm or running a government . as machines become increasingly capable , robots are replacing a growing number of workers . it will not be long before many robots perform not just more complex tasks , but will also learn faster than workers can for training . as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to improving human and environmental wellbeing , the distinction is vitally important . avoiding the barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides .
today portugal is approaching a little more than € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) . that translates a potential loss of more than 10 % of output for greece . had greek exports rebounded at an average rate equivalent to those in portugal ( or spain ) , it would have ended the recession now . indeed , the absence of export-led growth has made greece a recession much longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been . moreover , a lack of export-led growth has made fiscal adjustment far harder .
given that the fact that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . in other words , there was a trade weapon neither to address a trade issue nor as part of a legitimate regime of sanctions , as was the case with south africa , where it succeeded because it had multilateral backing . in contrast to the usmca – which at least was premised on the goal to solve trade issues – trump ’s “ tariff pronunciamento be a bald-confronted attempt to force the mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . ” as soon as trade measures are used indiscriminately to advance non-trading goals , the damage to the entire trading system is done – and could be immense . on those rare occasions when trade sanctions were deployed for non-trade reasons , they were an act of near-resort , as was the case in the case of the apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral backing .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , world ’s human population struck seven billion , on october 31 . as always happens whenever the us approach such a milestone , this one generated a surge in conferences , seminars , to learn articles , including conventional dire malthusian predictions . after all , the un forecasts that world population growth will rise to 9.3 billion by 2050 , and surpass 10 billion by the end of this century . such forecasts nonetheless misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of excessive population growth , but too little .
in exchange , the kremlin committed itself to supporting – but only after the constitution changes – ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of its control over those regions , as it does over its border with russia . in theory , the negotiations between the government in kyiv and the leaders of various separatist regions are being waged . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to organize rebel-controlled governments . the european union applies pressure on all parties , including russia , where it keeps the possibility of economic sanctions as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s support for peace efforts . if , however , russia does indeed have full control over separatist regions , and actively integrate them into its economy , as the bild document indicates , the kremlin can no longer be viewed as an outside party , attempting to influence an uncooperative ally .
madrid – nothing reveals the decay of the united states better than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 , and that of the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region than the contrast between america ’s own sober use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 , and that of the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii with a succession of radical assertions to the settlement of domestic dominance , following saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . by 2003 , america went to war , without its trans-atlantic allies , after being manipulated by false assertions . in doing so , america has embarked on a magic grand strategy that seeks no less simultaneously to dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda and helping to take root throughout the arab world .
such programs have been good , the argument goes , for the industrializing economies of the great depression and in the post-world war ii generations , but have become obsolete in today ’s high , networked , post-industrial economies . one of the strangest claims made in social-insurance debates now roiling the world ’s richest countries is that government-government-funded defined-benefit pension programs ( like america ’s social-security system ) is outmoded . just as corporations today are a lot of happier support for workers ’ pensions by contributing to employees ’ private-sector accounts , so governments today should be able to offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . the value of such accounts would fluctuate more than be placed on a defined-benefit scheme that ensures the fixed-sum of resources available for retirement . advocates of this argument would suggest an alternative model .
indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the sharply run-up in its debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of the misguided troika ’s programs foisted on it . does anyone in their right mind think that any country would voluntarily set itself up through what greece went its way , simply getting a free ride out of its creditors ? so it is not debt restructuring , but its absence that is “ immoral ” . if extreme moral hazard really exists , it is on the part of greece ’s lenders , particularly in the private sector , who have been bailed out repeatedly . if europe had allowed those debts to migrate from the private sector to the public sector , a well established pattern over the last half-century , it is europe , rather than greece , that should have suffered the consequences .
if europe , brazil , china , and other trade partners came to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs that they simply cut their own gains from trade , without reaping some of the advantages of protectionism . europe and china are not especially interested in depressing their imports ’ world prices or those of its resulting revenues . to be sure , neither scenario makes much of a sense today . while some european countries in the eurozone do suffer from high unemployment rates , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can do for better . so employment considerations are not a primary issue , either .
that is the view of many people in syria , even among insurgent groups . it is also the view of the majority of people in the american way . saving obama ’s honor hardly seems worth the risk ; it is . it is , after all , the view of the majority of people in europe . perhaps it is even the view of obama himself , one that plays for time , desperately turns over his approval of the attacks on syria to the american people congress .
but we tend to retain into adulthood the same opinions about god that formed in childhood . leave aside the fact that you can make an even stronger case against a godlessness , you recall the atrocities of atheist totalitarians throughout the twentieth century , and consider an assault on those whose allegiance to literal interpretations of religious writings means that they deny some science and reason . an ancient person with long beard watching over us , and much of us maintain a pretty literal view of those stories about his son told in the bible the new testament . it ’s this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens strike . and , with such a goal , there is not a lot hard to register holes and boils around a mockery .
their preferred model invites the un to provide financing and most other support to its mission while giving the au the chance to maintain its leadership role . at the same time , the complex command chain envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of the nato-russia operations of former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s ’s . au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control ; a joint au-un command would exercise operational supervision ; and the un would establish a force with overall strategic goals . nevertheless , many western governments refuse to place their forces under the au ’s command , owing to its perceived vulnerabilities , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assuming control . but the un has found it hard to attract sufficient volunteers for such a force , because foreign governments acceded to sudanese demands that a hybrid force remains predominantly african .
new york – a striking similarity has emerged between european central bank president mario draghi ’s statement after the recent ecb meeting governing council , and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first testimony to the us congress : both asserted that their policy decisions would take only domestic conditions . this confirms what the emerging-country institutions have known for some time . after all , the advanced economies ’ policies drove large and volatile capital flows to major emerging markets , pushed up their exchange rates , and hurt their export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as a “ capital tsunami . ” in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to considerable spillover effects from ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ monetary policies , are on their own . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a global currency war .
riyadh – saudi arabia has lately drawn a lot of criticism for its leading role in the country ’s war against houthi rebels in yemen . these are simplistic assertion , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen and , indeed , across much of the arab world . saudi arabia is not out to try to obtain the zaidis . others have argued that the struggle against the houthis , the zaidi shia-religious-political movement , is just one element in a broader shia war that saudi arabia has supposedly waging . indeed , some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state in the region , for taking actions against the poorest in syria .
china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its own national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics . to avoid a us response to that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have shown a diplomatic boon to america in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia . south korea has even tightened its military alliances with america ; japan backed away from a move to withdraw america ’s marine airbase from okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among many others , have drawn closer ties with america . but , to disband america and assume the mantle of us leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests , or contain potential rivals . most fundamentally , what does china truly represent with regard to its values and ideas ?
those who care about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are being bought into the nationalistic right vision of a community that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and promotes families . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries follow suit . rather than borrow to pay for inexpensive “ school sets ” students are obliged to purchase , poles exploited their 500 + advantages , in lieu . and , while women ’s job rates have declined because women have left minimum-wage jobs , pay , especially for store clerks , is rising sharply . lithuania instituted a less generous family 500 + in 2018 .
to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed on this state of affairs . the different people being read this to mean different things . that can make resolutions easier to adopt , but harder to act . thus , it comes a little surprise that no peace between israelis and palestinians remains possible , despite the countless diplomatic undertakings of the un , the european union , and its own members , the un and the parties themselves . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution that happens when the principal protagonists ’ leaders are both willing and able to embrace compromise .
shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also clearly reflects georgian pro-western strategic orientation . the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline -- which skirts russia when it is finished -- can not redefine the country ’s economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze sought . the eu will now depend on its exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is necessary in the united states or italy . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the contrary , this ought to become less a boon to the bilateral relationship , as russia itself is moving closer to nato and the us and europe .
whether an outlier is germany or any other eu member state , the division need not be lethal . certainly , none of this means that international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to foresee the outcome . but the lesson of libyan intervention is that it can be overcome if and when the eu comes to foreign policy . at the same time , what it does mean is that europeans find a way to work when it comes to foreign policy . europe is not a monolith ; but it can still operate a coherently , even without altogether agreement .
likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged more than 16 years behind its developing-country average , 14 years behind that country in south asia and 21 behind countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . in the combined gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and upper-secondary education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the average for developing countries , 11 % below south asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below in latin america and the caribbean . so , what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , much of africa was glaringly unexplored and co-occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was comparatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs , with no regard for western-style property rights .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and growing food-security concerns have compounded anxiety worldwide . the seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting factors rises in food prices , shifts to higher protein diets in many countries , a growing population , more people , greater use of biofuels , and climate change suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . the opportunity to put food on a table fills the parents with a deep feeling of foreboding . in the absence of solutions that ease growing pressure on supply , reducing hunger and malnutrition will intensify . and , with the world ’s poorest people spending a higher share of their incomes on food , they are among the worst affected , rising risk that years of advancing poverty reduction could be reversed .
as francis fukuyama pointed out , developing a capable state that is accountable and ruled by law is one of the crowning achievements of human civilization . this is not an easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . and this is what a anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating itself : creating organizations that are more obsessed to abiding by new and burdensome processes than they are to achieve their stated goals . it involves setting a shared sense of “ the us , ” ” ” ” an imagined community on whose behalf a state acts . as harvard ’s lant lant lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations embrace “ best practices ” such as financial management systems and procurement rules , they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do whatever is put in place .
turkey is confronting a refugee crisis that dwarfs one confronting europe ; non-proliferation of terrorist attacks on its own territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november . likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a sort of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of himself as constituting great-power politics . with the syrian conflict raging next door , erdoğan ’s claims are far from persuasive . by 2014 , he took over as the presidential palace and was surrounded by a guardian intended to evoke the ottoman splendor ; a pure , transparent endeavor to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments under his – much less his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses lavish trappings and gigantic resources in his inauguration , to assert credit to restore his country ’s living national pride , particularly as he tries to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices .
and at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , close to 900 leading businessmen from american , europe , asia , and africa met with new political leadership to map the way ahead . africa , for its part , has a long road ahead . it has positioned itself on most measures , a few decades , if not a century or more , behind the advanced economies in economic organization and the income level . us president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted the americans – typically the neglectful majority of africa except when it was in deep crisis , and the dramatic changes underway across the continent . of course , the purpose , and the outcomes , are two distinct issues .
as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran likes : “ once man loses his faculty of indifference to him becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms an idea into a god of consequences is incalculable . ” the moment you believe “ better dead than a spin ” you are in trouble . dying to save your own home , your family or country can be rational , if not dangerous . but martyrdom is a different , and a danger . over the past hundred years the contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe and the cold war might drag it down .
that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model , which failed once and will fail once again . politically , russia is in no position to develop an alternative international system ; but as if putin continues to pursue an outdated , antagonistic foreign policy , he can undermine the existing one . if putin is serious about diversifying and enhancing russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving his country ’s livelihoods to his people , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , particularly in the west . at a time when the world is confronted with so many destabilizing challenges , that would be bad for anyone . for that to happen , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions throw a wrench in the wheels of globalization ? unions ’ rising influence is apparent in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise the minimum wages of postal employees ; a few american presidential candidates have ’ open missteps on business and immigration ; and chinese leadership ’s nascent concerns about labor standards are misguided . together with their political clout , union of intellectual respectability is also experiencing a renaissance . one way , or another , the unions stand like the significant wild card in the evolution of the us economic system in 2008 and beyond . or will their growing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by fostering great equality and fairness ?
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming international rivers have embroiled the country in its water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has laid bare two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate global hydropower-equipment export markets . sinohydro power , having eclipsed western facilities like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to control half of the market . second , state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china has driven the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects , by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
new york -- much of the recurring debates in american foreign policy concerning , say , isolationism versus internationalism and unilateralism versus multilateralism take hold . others consider this to be too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and an american opted instead for a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate between “ realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and long overdue . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that an american foreign-policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence the externalities of other states ’ externalities , and those who uphold that it should shape their internal character . during the cold war , those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back its ” the soviet union , bring down its communist system , and replace it with democratic capitalism .
second , a british budget offer would be a powerful means to establish a “ deep and special partnership ” with europe , which may claim is its ultimate goal . until last month , may has avoided defining that phrase , owing to fears about antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . yet , in her florence address , may has promised britain firms something close to current levels of access to eu markets . she has also recognized that any privileged eu access to eu markets will require budget contributions , as has the case with norway and switzerland . if britain ’s transition payments continued near current levels of € 10 billion over the five or six years realistically requested to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , they would add up to an equal amount .
even if may can strike an exit deal , negotiating , and ratifying a sector-sector trade deal in the absence of two years , is impossible . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade deal , for example , took seven years to hash out , with an almost scotched call by belgium ’s parliament of ’s wallonia . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( ceta ) , for example , took seven years to hash out , a near-scotched constitution of belgium ’s wallonia . many of the 52 % of britons who voted for leave wanted to remain within the single market , because are the people who voted to remain in the eu . even if may can strike an exit deal , negotiating , and ratifying the sector-sector agreement is impossible under the next two years .
a functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs , with schools educating a large young population for today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s inter-connected world , is prerequisites of progress . by and large , the israeli-palestinian issue is crucial , for all the obvious reasons . recognizing this , open societies are inherently incompatible with a closed economy . for the first time in history , a lively and smart debate is related to this question , which lies at the heart of the middle east ’s problems . to be sure , this is enormously important and healthy .
in his many successful years as sibiu ’s mayor , iohannis distinguished from charismatic and shrewd politicians to include romanian media , show to a sober , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . but iohannis is very different not only as a part of his own political approach ; it is a evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country . in his many successful years as sibiu ’s mayor , sibiu distinguished herself from charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanian politics is being used , turns out to be a sober , laconic , and a pragmatic administrator . the vigorous religious invitations mounted against him during the campaign drew attention to the fact that the orthodox leaders who backed ponta were quick to adjust their rhetoric to support tolerance and cooperation . this demeanor is part of what made his victory so difficult to foresee his victory over the more talkative ponta .
some of these can be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits – like appreciating things that matter , or avoidance of dwelling on setbacks – have shown measurable improvements in wellbeing . the dalai lama recently helped to launch a series of such courses in london , evolved through a series of measures for happiness , an organization that i helped to find . at the same time , whole societies can attempt to enhance happiness itself . how countries are governed truly has an enormous impact on happiness . british prime minister david cameron has introduced the measurement of happiness in national statistics , with more recent german chancellor angela merkel launching a program aimed at promoting citizen ’s well-being .
more recently , there has been america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on end to syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . a new world order has given way to an order-lesser world , in which reliability and predictability have given way to quick shifts in focus and fickle liabilities . israel is but a tiny fraction of this overall pattern . all of this raises a key question : does america even need an overarching design for its foreign policy ? if the outcome is to make its foreign policy more robust and predictable , or worse , susceptible to a deep misunderstanding – then it certainly does not .
the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge in global imbalances and the us economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously from around 2004 onwards . thatcher herself was not an “ credit enthusiast , ” once famously stated , “ i do not believe in a credit card . ” financial interests opposed it vigorously at the time , viewing it as a thin end to a dangerous wedge , although they could scarcely have guessed just how robust the wedge will finally become . the 1986 financial services act put an end to pure self-regulation regime . it is also hard to trace back to the 1980 ’s the origins of credit rationing and proliferation into exotic , and poorly understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the 2007-08 crisis .
alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of syria ’s crises , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . indeed , iranian hardliners may be welcoming an israeli strike , and even seeking to do so as a means to rallying iranian populations beyond them . there is a better way to prevent the region ’s nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : an wmd-free zones , ” ” built around a incentive-led system of incentives that incorporate economic and technical support for countries that join , along with united nations security council ’s permanent members . the zone should also enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to remain outside , and , not later , backed by the security council ’s permanent members , impose military sanctions on those that attempt to develop wmds . a unilateral military strike would , in turn , allow potentially dire consequences , for which would be sufficient .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died so far in syria ’s civil war as well . united nations reports about atrocity crimes , internet images of assaults against civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend us hearts . more recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto a united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , where syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to dominate , its forces will obliterate the other sunni insurgent groups – at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood will eventually flow again . but what is to be done , and with whom ?
for americans ( and others ) who think that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant , should convince them otherwise . now that a raucous regional situation is joined in the raucous american election season ( where no issue is excluded from the political arena ) , the task assembling those components will become even bleaker . it is far too soon to judge the arab spring ’s historic effect ; but , if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is because israel and its palestinian neighbors had very little in common with it . in the months ahead that we can expect the region ’s ’s countries to remain focused on governance and capacity-building issues , human rights , and the creation of economies responding to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better life . new arab leaders will struggle , mightily with mounting public expectations , and their willingness to move behind the peace process takes a back seat to that struggle .
in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp – and these numbers are substantially higher when informal small - and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) are enrolled . according to the world bank , with no effective mitigation action at all levels , the fight against climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should be supporting small and medium-size enterprises . when an sme builds its own climate resilience , it can reshape the effects in communities around it . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp – and these numbers are significantly higher when inclusion in informal small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) .
agricultural output accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems ; landfills and coal mining creates gasoline as well . and because methane is much shorter-lived gas than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst for medium-term warming by mitigating it . and because methane is much shorter-lived gas than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst for at least one of the world ’s short-term warming from mitigating it . we could even introduce a larger focus on black carbon reduction , consider the responsibility for as much as 40 % of our current net net warming and one-third of arctic impoverishment . better yet , professor claudia diw of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits – from a reduction in a warming savings rate – between about 1.4 and three times higher .
it has never had to deal with others as equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that did so for a century . it is not only to have to live with the reality of american power ; it must also take account of the american ideal . in china ’s challenge , however , the challenge may be more difficult to manage . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , to adopt a symbol , resembling a statue of liberty . today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that poses a threat or challenge to china , but rather its enduring attraction as an “ american dream . ”
a stronger , unified europe , the argument goes , could then rival america and china in most domains – including through “ weaponizing ” their economic resources to further its geostrategic goals . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty claims , it could make europe like the g3 world realities on the ground . yet european leaders tempted by the prospect of the g3 world must address two related concerns . first , it remains unclear how the eu will reach the required level of integration , when most important decisions within the bloc still demand unanimity among its member states . but , collectively , eu member states , even without the united kingdom , would constitute the power of a similar magnitude .
while the us has more or less tariff protection than europe on average , the gap is minor ( europe ’s unweighted customs duties averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for the us ) . after all , this is how the us administration handled canada and mexico . trump has temporarily exempted both countries from tariffs ; but now he expects concessions from them as part of his administration ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement . regulatory divergences impose a far more significant barrier to us-european trade than tariffs . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections for specific industries .
how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i also paid their fee for a diagnostic test that might be fair enough , but that it can also prevent any other us firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay it a license fee ? do n’t i have the rights to control over one ’s own body ? do n’t i somehow retain the rights of having a stake in my own ? proprietary rights for commercial enterprises over a single fundamental element of any individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable . we need not believe in genetic determinism to find that argument compelling .
humans are no exception in this regard , at least in part . for this reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against traffic in women has applauded amnesty international for encouraging decriminalization . opposition came also from some feminist organizations , charging that amnesty for protecting “ the rights of pimps and johns ” rights . instead , they argued , we should “ end the demand of paid sex ” by sex ” ; but without explaining how that should be done . in species that reproduce sexually , male sex is , for an obvious reason , one of the strongest and most pervasive aspirations .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from advanced economies , emerging markets won a rising share of the soaring us merchandise trade ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than one-half of global trade flows . since the great recession , us growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . but deeper structural changes also play a role . many companies are simplifying and shoring up their supply chains . for a host of goods , automation means that production locations and outsourcing decisions no longer depend primarily on labor costs .
in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with us plans to talk about the withdrawal from afghanistan , whether the us security situation warrants it or not . according to rice , anything less than a residual strength of 10,000 american troops will send the message that america is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan , a message that will embolden russian president vladimir putin to back down . the us evidently believes that a continuing military presence in afghanistan is in its own interests . what it does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia , a crucial conduit for american military supplies in afghanistan to afghanistan , could undercut its basing strategy . nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan us backing within the us for retaining military bases in afghanistan , as a means of projecting hard power , and the increasingly charged confrontation between american and russia over ukraine has increased precisely .
in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy by refusing to sign down on the summit ’s ’s ’s official record , as though this will render them inconsequential for poland . in a sign of what is to be forthcoming , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told a tabloid superekspres after the summit that the eu was pursuing a policy of double standards and deceptions . likewise , poland ’s government has undeniably paralyzed the court , undermining the rule of law in poland . according to waszczykowski , poland has not only “ “ must drastically cut down [ its ] level of trust in the eu , ” ” ” ” but “ must also start to pursue a distortionary policy , ” by blocking other initiatives , or playing an extremely aggressive game . such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of a pis government that has likewise refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as if that makes them legally non-binding .
we tap that solar power in a number of fundamental ways , with food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heat , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels , but opportunities greatly enhanced by inexpensive , widespread knowledge , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power are giant . this will require massive investment in new technologies and resources , rather than a “ struggle to finish ” over middle eastern oil . important energy technologies will include converting co2 to liquids ( such as gasoline ) , use of tar sands and petroleum products , and the growth of nonfossil-fuel energy sources . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and secure and reliable nuclear power . solar radiation equals roughly 10,000 times our current use of energy .
back in the 1950 's , asia conjured up images of increased poverty and starvation . as john lennon sang in 1968 : if you follow the pictures of chairman mao , you do not make ai any more of the anyhow . there was brief political infatuation between some westerners in the 1960 's with nehru 's jackets and maoist revolutions , you were brief . asia 's resurgence began , indeed , with japan 's economic success . in the late century , japan 's spectacular performance not only made the japanese wealthy deeper , but also strengthened the country 's soft power .
for example , its proposed budget tremors fund for cross-border infrastructure projects , including the expansion of high-speed broadband internet networks to rural areas and the development of transportation and energy infrastructure . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transport links . but with fire-related austerity , the eu can add significant value by coordinating transnational infrastructure projects to meet economies of scale , and to avoid a clean bill of domestic spending . likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovate small and medium-size companies , not cut funding for important research programs like the eu 2020 . but , with fire-related austerity and the eu seeking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the shape of it , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment .
france got that message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism against china will become even more muted . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuses . france received that message ; the french were soon to stop promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . france was then rewarded by acceding to china ’s lucrative posts .
within the sdg framework , separate gender issues and health intermingled , owing to the fact that gender itself is a significant driver of health outcomes . in fact , gender can affect whether a single smokes tobacco , exercises periodically , or has access to nutritious food . a global agenda on this front determines norms and standards that shape how public and private actors promote health , curb illness , and administer care . it encompasses research initiatives , as well as on global public goods like vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic disease outbreaks . and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and guaranteeing everyone ’s right to health .
still , just a plurality of women has its impact . for example , studies of the us supreme court with multiple judges show that male judges are more ready to hear cases of bias when one woman is on the bench , and substantially more willing when she is added to the second woman . in other words , women bring a fresh perspective ; clearly only when the critical mass is present in any institution . “ each of us , ” ” noted sandra day o’connor , a first female member of the american supreme court renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a female ” justice , “ bringing in to our task , whatever the case , is , our lifetime of experience , and our values . ” consider , in contrast , a woman ’s perspective on the conflict .
ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy , if not right , to get one ’s hands filthy through politics . our hands become dirty with helping a terrorist or a dictator , but you get tough . the immediate thing , he adds , is that this gets one ’s hands dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ” but choosing action for the greater good does n’t abate us from moral culpability .
but in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis expelled , because they saw a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been prohibited from saudi arabia . embittered and the unemployed , young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy go awry , their propagation for the export of sunni wahhabi forms of islam . with new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen as a result of saudi financial aid , it is small wonder that yemeni jihadis ’ numbers have grown exponentially . yet yemen , too , has been engaged in its own destructive policies .
these fundamental studies have now led to the development of new and powerful immunotherapies that effective against cancer . to be sure , these fundamental studies have now led to the development of new and powerful immunotherapies that are effective against cancer . to be sure , for some patients with some cancers , immunotherapies have been revolutionary , enabling those on the verge of dying to live healthy lives with non-detectable traces of disease . but , so far , the immunocompromised revolution in tb is still in its infancy . yet , for the first time , the immunotherapies still have much to learn .
the only way to develop is through adaptation to new environmental pressures , and now silicon valley – owing largely to its own behavior – faces plenty of them . unless and until it does change , its approach will be overhauled . the good news is that , if any place has proved that it can innovate , it is silicon valley . but it has already followed this approach on the macro level , and for problems elsewhere in the economy , without scrutiny . silicon valley ’s citizens must begin by adjusting their skill in innovation , and their pride in “ breaking things ” to themselves .
establishing a now-structured , well-functioning goat market helps to develop a positive feedback loop . if farmers feel confident that their goats will not be stolen and can sell them at a decent price , then they are better able to invest in an improved production system . here , too , a platform for innovation is helping . for starters , by training farmers how to enhance their soil by expanding legume crops , ordinary residues can be put in place as goat fodder . recognizing the benefits of these practices , farmers have immediately begun increasing crop density , applying manure to rotating crops to increase yields and producing more feed for healthier goats .
in the early nineteenth century , hourly wages stagnated for almost 50 years , before they picked off again . that was supposed to be an extreme situation ; in some cases , it was the first point of step . but , for the lower-skilled , the transition now underway could prove just as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should keep five imperatives first and foremost . with fears about increased inequality already mounting , governments will need to rethink the income and job-creating policies of displaced workers .
to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with guiding a process in which all were deeply implicated . less than three years later , a set of kagame and a pan-african committee of experts is being conducted by a group of experts that it has appointed – through an inclusive consultative process – involving african leaders and other stakeholders . for the most part , this is a matter of thinking , not means . fortunately , at the latest au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and failed to implement many decisions . fortunately , at the latest time , the need for mindsets is beginning to shift .
both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are not obliged to intervene in the currency market through purchases and sale reserves . rather , why are we thinking about reserves differently than we think about other sources of assets on their national balance sheets ? just suppose that ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues bonds in the new york times , and uses the dollar proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . now , suppose that one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond , and use those dollars to enlarge one of its modern , high-competitive upstream plants to sell more powdered milk to asia . at best , market participants will applaud the decisions ; at worst they are also indifferent , because brazil ’s ’s net debt position will not change .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that transforms india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has invested in an extensive national digital agenda , which is predicated on creating 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 trillion to gdp over the coming decade . while other countries are embracing robust digital solutions , america is falling behind . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that transforms india into a tech powerhouse and setting the stage for the digital future . the consequences are already starting to materialize : according to a 2016 bloomberg innovation index , america ’s is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having fallen two spots since 2015 .
beyond funding constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . above all , greater care responsibilities , bolstered by widespread public perceptions about the “ woman ’s role , ” severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office . likewise , in iran , political parties are losing 50 % of their state ’s financing when a candidate pool comprises less than 30 % of either gender . in georgia , for example , political parties – which comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral campaign lists – receive a 30 % supplement from the national budget . similarly , in iran , political parties are losing 50 % of their state funding when a candidate pool comprises less than 30 % of either gender .
by all accounts , iran is a divided society deeply divided between those who want its country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing is better served through its own nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions imposed on iran would appear to be supporting the latter rather than the former . that might well have been true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , true accountable to the people ’s will . but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions did anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . moreover , as is so often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to push for an agreement .
the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model ” will be public-private partnerships among governments , research institutes , and investors – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engaging both the public and the private sector . because we do not yet know which innovations will be the most critical in decarbonizing the economy , investment will need to be allocated to a broad array of choices . in order to succeed , patient finance also needs to be made available to assist companies minimize uncertainty and bridging the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . one hopes that the paris accord is a change that is being made .
but those challenges will not be addressed , and the opportunities will not materialize unless children everywhere have the skills that they need . for these reasons , my land , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children , especially girls , and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – quality education . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budgets – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and our young people . furthermore , we are planning to provide up to 90 % of financing for a new program to improve senegal ’s quality of education between now and 2030 . even so , senegal ’s struggles to fulfill every cost in expanding its education system .
europe ’s defense industries will not be able to forge progress without a well-functioning market – open , transparent , and equal opportunities for all european suppliers . the objective must be to foster european security integration ( in their broadest sense ) , lifting europe on the threshold of global security . as member states advance on this path , being propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation will find avenues for eliminating wasteful spending and optimize for resource use . a critical component in the defense industry ’s coordination and properly functioning europe ’s security and defense policy is the european defense agency . advances in the defense industry lead to significant positive externalities , such as weapons of mass destruction and investment in research and development that are crucial to growth , innovation , and our future competitiveness .
for example , china banned shark-fin soup , traditional delicacy , the official government of dinners , and functioning – a move that contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales from last december through april . a study by the australian marine institute finds that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far beyond its shark-fishing industry . a single reef shark that frequents major dive sites in palau is worth about $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million above its lifetime ; that same shark would be worth roughly $ 108 dead . nor should it be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given their shark ’s economic value plummets when it dies . in guangzhou ’s south city of guangzhou , a centers of shark-fin trade , us vendors reported a 82 % decline in sales during the past two years .
tudjman 's excuse was that croatia needed to concentrate power in its struggle against serbian aggression . because both tudjman and milosevic felt within ethnically homogeneous nation-states , enforced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , and a division of territories between one another . to accomplish this with a minimum of fuss , which muzzled the press and the electronic media . the truth is that it took advantage of an agreed hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and a russian-style plunder on state attributes of his coterie of loyalists . notwithstanding enmity between serbia and croatia , resolving a dictator to a dictator with milosevic was simple .
its membership amounts to just 7 % of hong kong ’s total electorate , with its voting procedures seeking to block the nomination by any of the candidates able to harbor democratic sympathizers . under the fundamental law , an election committee should be called broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . beginning in 1997 , 55-61 % of registered voters cast their ballots for democratic candidates in a legislative council election . hong kong ’s government could call for changes in order to increase the level of openness and fairness by electing a chief executive without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . the simultaneous proposed arrangements would allow the chinese government to veto any candidate that it dislikes , prompting criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style elections : “ you can vote for anyone in the choice . ”
in its quest for democracy , liberals dismiss the argument employed by today ’s rulers that jewish elections would come last , because islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes . that case , is not yet proven , is a case in point . january ’s palestinian elections won a relatively moderate leader because he put forward the ruling fatah movement , and the islamists boycotted the elections . yet in gaza strip local elections soon afterward , the radical islamists , who used terrorism , won seven of its ten municipal councils . reformers insist that the overwhelming majority support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic to compete for power and govern .
a shakeout in the clean-tech sector was tough ; but it was also typical in an emerging technology ; and , by weeding out downside players , it made the industry more robust . increasingly , industries are implementing approaches that ensured success on other sectors , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . this is a segment of the global segment that is meeting a growing global public need . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities for improvement will emerge . there is little room to doubt that the clean-tech industry can be expected to contain plenty of sunny days ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom upon which the world shrouded in 2008 led many to wonder whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was genuine . we know that in a countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of global billionaires has skyrocketed . more generally , a top 1 % of the population has begun to succeed . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened over time , and at least in america , incomes in both the poor and middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ; on top of this , many are now skeptical of taxpayer-financed regimes in order to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even the automakers . no wonder that many are now skeptical of taxpayer-financed regimes to bail out banks , insurance firms , and even the automakers .
their primary goals are designed to enable companies and organizations to set sustainability goals and pivotal indicators of performance ; to monitor , prepare , and disclose comparative data to measure their economic and esg performance ; and to integrate sustainable production and consumption practices within the company ’s business strategies and models . global awareness about the topic is itself increasing . given the task ’s magnitude , however , it is important to ensure that effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts , with appropriate standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations , are critical to ensuring that they are coordinated . recently , mark carney , governor of the bank of england and g20 chairman of the financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lp , have issued a recent announcement concerning market climate data . for one , america ’s securities and exchange commission already discusses such issues , as it is analyzing options to respond to investor and business needs regarding esg .
this month , the g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro offer pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . the pursuit of thriving , inclusive economies must be linked to efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security . specifically , small landholders need new instruments that enable them to boost productivity while establishing more sustainable methods of production . but the outcomes the world needs are viable financing options and frameworks to underpin economic transformation , just as integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance promises can not do without the policy will . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ capacity to galvanize an equal level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – the 2008 global financial markets experienced their worst crises since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others been bought off , or survived only after major bailouts . global stock markets fell more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads have widened ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch have materialized ; and many emerging-market economies have even staggered to the international monetary fund for help . so what is the lies ahead in the 2009 slump ? is the worst behind us or ahead of the us ?
and it takes only a moment on twitter or a cable news to confirm the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” add to that a second-psychological bias neuroscientists are debating : because our species have evolved to fend off dangers , we tend to feel more sensitive to the bad news at the time . we have responded more acutely to images of starving children than to news about the improvement of nutrition levels in africa . the good news is not news ; there is a dearth of media executives , indeed , often mutter . and , of course , we tend to recall those horrible images much longer .
insightful bloggers capture far more clicks than do official mouthpieces . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change brought on the internet to china ’s political landscape . to be sure , china ’s government has apparently started to appreciate both covertly and stonewalling limitations , and perhaps also the merits of granting some room for free speech . a “ virtual civil society , ” ” it seems , is in the making . nowadays , government no longer monopolizes information and right to process it .
new york – countries often dedicate public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promoting imports , as china carries with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened up in shanghai – is truly rare . if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect it to narrow china ’s trade surplus with one another . but this need not be the case , either . the annual import expo , a component of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , attracted thousands of companies worldwide through the promise of large orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises , which the government tasked with making the expo a success .
london – the historian norman stone , who died in june , always insisted that history ’s students learn foreign languages . language provides access to people ’s culture and culture to its history . its history tells us a difference in how it sees itself and the rest of us . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . knowledge of languages should thus be an essential component of a historian ’s technical device .
more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins about bombings and hostage taking on and “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on that prospect . the first nagging question is this : will there actually be elections next january ? prime minister yyad allawi assures a world that there will be , and president bush is expressing his words . while this scenario may be simple , the reality is not . the likelihood of iraq ’s elections holding that coming january needs to be less than 50 % ; we can be sure that these will not be free and fair elections across the country as a whole .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , a question of how trump has won still commands attention , with russia ’s role increasingly moving to center stage . every new revelation in the impeachment inquiry of russian meddling in the 2016 campaign brings the vulnerability of the american democratic process to its sharper focus . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation to compel facebook , google , and other social-media giants to publicize who purchases of online advertising , thereby closing the loopholes that russia exploited during the election campaign . but making amends through technical fixes and public promises to build a better corporate citizenry will address the only the most publicized problem . empowering institutions vital to the functioning of democracy will be a tougher challenge .
within america ’s presidential campaign , trade protectionism is fashionable once again . but , while import constraints may ease the pain in some manufacturing districts , they wo n’t stop companies from relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest . in the us , they will not shield workers from the effects of technological change . and they will not recreate yesterday ’s many development patterns , either . still , when the ends are clear , politicians are frequently clueless of means .
a move by army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons could end the conflict , with military commanders gaining credit and political capital . when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented migrants , two critical issues for europe , arab military dictators have an inglorious track . to get “ stuck in a transition ” is the third possibility scenario , with libya remaining in a “ gray zone ” ” ” ” neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but “ semi-free ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” are unlikely to work out this . algeria in the 1990 ’s provides an attractive reminder of this , and western governments do not want a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to restart their rule . but four decades of a military-based dictatorship may be adequate for libyans , a majority who has never actually benefited most from their country ’s wealth or potential .
second , court staff were thoroughly muslim , meaning that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . when a muslim and non-muslim confronted each other in a trial , muslims enjoyed a significant advantage . but , of course , if they were involved in a case opposed to a muslim , that was needed to be done in an islamic court . first , training of judges predisposed them to give the benefit of no doubt to a fellow muslim . third , whereas muslims might be able to testify against anyone , christians and jews could testify only against another non-muslim member .
some argue that the real sticking point is the risk of attack and of destruction , which might occur if weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they are practicing something like a cost/benefit analysis , based on a subjective sense of danger . but there can be no way to produce an objective assessment of fear , and , even if that is possible , use of cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc on the global system of domestic sovereignty and international law . a better way to create a sense of self-defense is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims to justify in domestic and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which meant that if israel had a right to attack osirak reactor , then iraq had a right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility near dimona state .
most economies are becoming less fair as well , with widening gaps between the rich and the poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . the world ’s governments have asked the un secretary-general to coordinate their goals until the year 2015 to ensure a seamless transition from the un millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire after year . a pivotal meeting of the un general assembly will take place in late 9/11 for that purpose . with these forward-thinking challenges , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to embrace sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) .
from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments view their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . the argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard in able to visualize , and creating thriving global demand for either a product or a service , just as spain ’s amancio ortega has made with zara , is just as an entrepreneur like the next bill gates is . it is high time that diplomats in singapore do the same . they should promote and provide incentives for job creators and problem solving solvers , and turn development aid into investments . today , starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide that $ 50,000 more than facebook , google , amazon , and apple combined .
though such politicians frequently describe themselves as a “ rightist , ” their actual policies – for example , those laid out by former portuguese prime minister vladimir meciar , are actually demagogic or authoritarian . moreover , the situation of the political right within any central european country is plagued by experiences rooted in history and tradition . political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years of communism set the czech republic and slovakia other than both poland and hungary . whereas both the polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization , enabling the relatively large semi-official freedom of activity outside of postcommunist control , slovakia after the soviet-led invasion became a rigid , neo-stalinist era regime . when the former communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , both poland and hungary ’s communist parties transformed themselves into the credible , democratic-left party parties that had become formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right .
a third important difference is that all u.s. states are required by their constitutions to balance their yearly operating budgets . whereas a “ rainy day ” of funds that accumulate in boom years are used to cope with temporary revenue shortfalls , ’ ’ ’ “ general obligation , ” borrowing limits capital projects , like roads , and schools . in fact , the eu ’s maastricht treaty specifically reserves this kind of tax-and-transfer authority for member states , a reflection of europeans ’ desire to transfer funds to other countries of their own people in the way that americans are willing to do among people in various states . even a us state like california , viewed by germany as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has annual budget deficits of just 1 % of its gdp and combined obligation debt of just 4 % of gdp . these intra-government budget limits are a logical implication that american states can not create money to fill their fiscal gaps .
i have little doubt that , later this century , one is likely to buy your pocket professors – perhaps with holographic images – as easily as one can buy a pockets of kasparov chess computer computer today . yet the vast evidence body suggests that technological change was a much bigger driver of global wage patterns than trade . as a result , i certainly do n’t feel safe as an adult professor ! as a result , globalization proceeded at a rapid pace through much of the last hundred years and at a particularly accelerated pace during his or her two decades . so , let ’s return to both india and china on a regional basis .
provided that countries have effective national governance institutions , trade and growth give them the means to clean up their air . when trade brings down costs , it can benefit from environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods . so , is trade globalization , at its balance , better or worse ? some empirical cross-country data studies find net beneficial effects on indicators of environmental degradation like local air pollution . specialization within any country allows people to extract more of what they want , which – especially at higher income levels – involves cleaner air and water .
consider what happened on december 17 th . during the cold war , during the term “ kremlinology ” ” ” referred to its efforts to understand what had been taking place at the commanding heights of the soviet union ’s soviet union – indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists had monitored ( in whatever form possible ) who had been up and who had been down among the core soviet leadership . all of this had been grammar-school stuff , compared to efforts to decode the regime in north korea , where the truths were far more opaque . great significance was being read upon who had signed an official document , or who was standing where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square , when revising military parades .
in a desperate , last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over ” of messages ” to a number of systemically important economies , to be conducted at its country ’s margins ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative appears destined to fail , just as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise , or peer reviews in its recent history . even if the massive spillovers are obviously recognized , it is hard to see how this exercise would address a fundamental problem behind a currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interest groups . so , what should latin american economies do ? admittedly , they have a right to defend against them , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and a commitment to reserve accumulation ( a potentially profitable option when capital flows are genuinely temporary ) , impose capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies geared toward countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing .
countries were being warned : avoid trade deficits and erected reserves because they were crucial frontlines of defense . east asian countries followed through on this advice , and for a good reason : they saw the consequences of shortages . east asian governments knew back then that imf policies would deepen their downturns but became helpless to resist . if china let its currency float back then , it could depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . at the same time , the imf had the money it needed to do so .
more recently , some us states have introduced cap-and-trade schemes to cap a carbon price , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s own ’s stated reliance on clean-energy plan . welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton ; and obamacare is relying on the massachusetts health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a variety of energy policies , from wide-ranging climate action schemes to mandated renewable-energy standards , 33 states are cutting carbon-dioxide emissions , while expanding their economies . half of all us states have now retrofitting marijuana in some form with approximately full legalization . three states have implemented laws that offer paid families leave with a fourth way .
cambridge – “ i want to be a part of it , like new york , new york , new york , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” frank sinatra sang of a city that has attracted so many of what is more ambitious worldwide , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . but major cities ’ impact runs deeper than economics or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally effect people ’s lives , and even those of people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey western , coupled with a researchers ’ team , discovered that several socioeconomic actions – both positive and negative – add to the size of local populations . elsewhere , a larger city , the higher average wage , productivity levels , the number of patents per person , crime rates , anxiety prevalence , and hiv incidence . in a sense , this does not amount to a difficult phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with their multicultural populations , supranational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals are rife with opportunities .
as if all of this were not enough to decide against the americans , clincher may well have been india ’s inclination to avoid another procurement controversy at a time when corruption allegations have beset it from all parties . a decision made in technological grounds , many felt , would have been easier to block than one based on political considerations . ( it will most likely have an eventual winner in the bid , it will be forced to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american companies would not do . ) against this are the inherently unambiguous advantages to pleasing a prominent new ally , and develop a pattern of bilateral military cooperation on the supply , training , and operations that has yet to develop . at a time when american nuclear-reactor purchase – made possible by an historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – was held up by american insistence on exemptions from us supplier responsibility in case of an accident , some regard india ’s spurning of american airplanes as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america well .
even stronger banks are being pushed to increase their capital buffers . in the case of banks that have required state rescues , european competiveness regulations are requiring divestment and downsizing . institutions like royal bank of scotland , which for a time has been leading the list of the world ’s largest international banks in 2009 , are being pruned by the eu ’s directorate general for competition . as a result , large supranational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking and regulation ( and , implicitly , for fiscal bailouts , should that supervision and regulation trump fail ) . in most cases , that means they will continue to cut back on lending , aggravating the impact of a financial crisis on the rest of the economy .
trump has shot back that america ’s military is “ locked and loaded for the time being . ” and , indeed , as this exchange of rhetorical fire has unfolded , with the america reportedly preparing military options for a striking north korea may be revving . even more ominous , according to confidential american intelligence report , north korea has acquired a capacity to miniaturize more nuclear warheads , potentially having as many as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken . the north korea immediately did just that , threatening an “ enveloping ” attack on american territory of guam .
two conclusions can be drawn from all of this . the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to the others because of the public goods that society provides . this calls for more modesty and restraint in deciding highest pay , not for moral reasons but for the system ’s sustainability . the second conclusion is that those in the most privileged classes benefit the most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . but do not hold your breath wait for them to agree upon .
they understood that unemployment would spike when the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s monetary policy was set by the central bank , which focused single-mindedly on disinflation ( followed by insufficient attention on financial stability ) . and , sure enough , what we are seeing now , right now , 19th years after the eurozone institutionalized those relationships are the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government an end . the economy would suffer because the economic model underlying the euro was predicated on power relationships that disadvantaged workers . when sweden ’s did , swedes said , no one . after all , it is extremely inconvenient to have in greece a government that is so opposed to the kinds of policies that did so much to increase inequality in so many advanced countries and that it is so committed to curbing unbridled wealth power .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first-ever freely elected president , millions of egyptians took to the street , triggering the military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political incompetence , and his lack of vision in the face of economic collapse , would have had enough to reduce support for his rule . but his rejection of pluralism , and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his drive to centralize power in the brotherhood ’s hands and place himself beyond scrutinizing egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s judiciary , has proved to be his undoing . but it follows too soon to write political islam off a possibility participant , even a leading force in pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a group of korean scientists published in the journal science on research results that for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to fit the dna both male and female patients of different age . a subsequent day , british researchers at newcastle university announced the success of a cloned human embryo that uses donated eggs and genetic material from stem-cell lines . both breakthroughs amount to a stunning advance in stem-cell research that takes place . embryonic stem cells are a " pluripotent , " meaning that they have the capacity to develop into any species of human tissue . this carries large promises , notably to sufferers of spine and disease .
in recent decades , many of the largest global companies have engaged in new technologies to reduce employee layers of iron , from their top executives to factory workers to reduce costs and enhance efficiency . at the same time , such actions would boost not just fiscal sustainability , raising the additional income could total 2 % of gdp , but also improving efficiency in total resource allocation . finally , china can reduce government expenditures ( over the medium term ) by making its vast administrative hierarchy effective . this includes overhauling its tradable-permit program , by closing the threshold beyond which corporations must pay and eliminating exemptions from enterprise or industry permits . on the other hand , china ’s government has retained the same , six-layer structure of law – beginning with the central government and moving down through provinces , prefectures , counties , township , and villages – ever since the people ’s founding 70 years ago .
when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , in the wake of russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has restored its capability , such a move would have been unthinkable . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and prudent . nuclear deterrence , the threat of kill hundreds of thousands or millions of people , is a concept that fails to fit into traditional morals . indeed , the risks of a world free of nuclear weapons , or little if any , are tremendous .
the contagious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it in a willing executioner of replication . the prion gene is provided by a infected individual in whom it resides in an act of innocuous state . as the tragedy has unfolded , so has scientists . prions seem to dismiss all conventional wisdom , surviving pressure-washing , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for four hours a treatment that is routinely – and reliably – used to de-activate all previously known viruses and bacteria . moreover , prions lack their own genes ; they also mostly lack the liberty and dignity of their health .
performing arts proponents in europe point to the us , where , among other things , the music directors of an even major orchestras are now expected to take full part in fundraising activities , and be proactive in local communities on orchestras . some conductors , not seeking to carry out a tin cup like that wave of their batons , dismiss important posts in america for that reason , feeling that it interferes with their arts . the same thing , they fear , will happen in europe . but us experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra music executive to participate in fundraising need not be a bad thing to artistic go . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because he objected to the demands of fundraising that were produced by him .
the council is more likely to accept the option of mounting a punitive weapons strikes on it – going well beyond what was actually done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the republican guard , and other armed-force goals . this would hurt and weaken saddam , setting unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . we should not try to forswear this possibility ; but we will want to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically if not legally crucial – may never support an invasion . it would be strange to uphold the council ’s authority by means that it has failed to win its consent . likewise , the council could declare that any form of fresh aggression or eventual use , threats , or transfers of wmd will trigger saddam ’s removal and his pursuit , as an international criminal entity , such as slobodan milosevic .
some of the inspectors that he knew well , had dined with them on collegial terms during the visit in vienna . that he would lie to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to his friends on a inspections team . that time , they knew exactly what the enormous magnets had for : the production of weapons-grade nuclear materials . soon thereafter , the inspectors moved back to tarmiya . this time , dr. ahmed , iraqi counterpart , realized that game was up .
china , after all , is now one of the most unequal countries in the world . but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three myths about the impact of economic growth . the first is that its growth reduces inequality , and it increases happiness . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would increase sharply and then decline , in a pattern of inverted “ u ” or bell , as countries pursue economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes that claim more powerfully than any other case .
pakistan has held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is gearing up to hold another at the end of 2012 , or in early 2013 . had the supreme court not removed gilani , he would have been the first premier to finish his full term . pakistan has thus taken one more step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . of course , democracy has always been intended to mean more than periodically holds free and fair elections . it must also mean developing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and providing the citizenry the institutional resources to settle their disputes .
by contrast , the bush administration continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalize demands in favor of a corporatist dialogue . that , 20 years after that epochal event , remains around cuba to make that anniversary poignant . europe ’s peoples are marking the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe itself in two . but , regardless of that ignorance , and its economic interests , the eu should insist on freeing up political prisoners and using all international institutions to put pressure on the cuba government to respect cuba ’s people ’s human and civil rights . of course , the tourists that crowd cuba ’s beaches are oblivious to this iron curtain .
the uprising in burma , some claimed , is over . nonetheless , we are genuine , with thousands of us including thousands of rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrated for the peace process . that is what the junta wants for the world to think . but we believe in the protests represent the beginning of an end to military rule in our country . brigadier general hsan , the army ’s most representative , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that marchers were “ bogus monks . ”
for example , although plato opposed the enslavement of greeks , he – like every other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) . yet , while morality has always been at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we now take for granted never imagined it . nowadays , by contrast , even a emphatically non-philosophical individual is saying , plato ’s ’s “ media advocacy ” once more easily could explain why he thought slavery to be wrong : “ a person is another kind of individual . ” nevertheless , plato would most likely be havel in the world ’s moral progress . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibilities of a moral reformer .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level social divisions that have emerged as a result of the conflict , particularly in violence hubs . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterized rural colombia gave the farc their first destination , and conflict has been concentrated in such areas as the peace agreement . here , local and international civil-society organizations , together with their regional and municipal governments , hold an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experiences of overcoming some similar challenges should demonstrate the need for success . such an effort must underpin progress on another front : rural development that is the single economic issue addressed through a peace agreement . ( dismantling narco-trafficking activity , in which farc has been involved , can also be viewed as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , a security issue . )
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , especially in europe , makes headlines around the world . indeed , roughly 5.5 million europeans under age 25 are jobless , on average . more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are “ neets ” ” ” in more than 12 months , and their chances of job seekers remain low . the rate of youth unemployment exceeds 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to about 30 % in italy , spain , cyprus , latvia , hungary , slovakia , and slovakia , and surpasses 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , over 30 % of job-seekers under the age of 25 have been unemployed for over 12 months , and their chances of job seekers remain low .
foreign producers are blamed for “ unjust ” competition far more easily than domestic producers do . indeed , when standards of domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps most firms within the us would be guilty of dumping charges . yet the american supreme court has set norms so high that american firms are found guilty of predation that few cases successfully prosecute domestically . trade negotiators are not even debating this double standard . so developing countries are concerned that efforts to introduce `` race competition '' within trade negotiations will only make life harder .
facebook is betting that libra will trigger the market for taurus . but libra ’s benefits seem as slippery as well as the pisces . as such , the libra project is dangerous like switzerland , and will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer again . for emerging economies , this would mean being cured of dollarization merely to catch up with an even worse case of libraization . if this happens , libra will have complicated those countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger a period of sluggish growth and financial instability .
in france , for example , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in an high-growth environment ( think of 5-7 % annual rates ) than in a low – or no-growth , where the incomes and opportunity subset are either stagnant or declining . the latter dynamic now playing out in france , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests of the past month . a new tax on diesel fuel was the immediate trigger for the protests . the added cost was not all that large ( around $ 0.30 per gallon ) ; but fuel prices in france already were among the highest in europe ( about $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in the developing world , though the particular dynamics depend on a variety of factors .
from alexander the great to stalin ’s brutal , the variants of a strategy have been used to keep nations in thrall to the willingness of the emperor . thus overplays his hand in ukraine ’s recent elections , however , putin has clearly laid bare his neo-imperialist designs on the world . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president has since said that he can work with whatever government can choose to become part of ukraine . we are now seeing this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin ’s government stealthily seek to re-establish kremlin supremacy over lands that treated as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . trying to conquer them is an immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history .
skinner interprets this narrowly focus on america ’s nato allies ’ need to boost their defense spending . in any case , an active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing . what she fails to acknowledge is that america is also forcing the rest of the world to shoulder the burden of its unsustainable structural saving shortfall . america has consistently run both a fiscal deficit with overall expenditure ( of which the department of defense ranks 14.8 % in 2017 ) dramatically exceeds its revenues , as well as its current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp , net american debt to the rest of the world currently stands at 40 % of gdp – double its current level in less than 24 years .
consider , for example , how recent innovations are threatening the strategy of export-oriented industrialization that has fueled many countries ’ development over the last few decades . through their abundant and low-cost labor , developing countries proved able to scale up their share of global manufacturing activities , create employment , attract investment , and , in some cases , acquire a broader process of industrialization . but , for firms that seize the opportunity to cut costs by shifting manufacturing to the developing world , a trade-off has always followed : offshore production implies limited capacity to respond rapidly to consumer-led demand shifts . now , technology may offer another option , no more than it will be . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” ” ” robots , and other nonhuman tools , companies could shift their production locations to their end-markets .
for instance , joyce , my former workmate , has a husband who is diehard united manchester united fan . every season , she breaks at least one leg through furniture when his team loses her . even the wives of men watching the game at home have received other issues with which to cope . couches are stained with a beer and kicked as it cheers its favorite teams . she has reshaped her furniture , at least twice the rate she received women four years ago .
challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred toward the other , more ethnic or religious minorities that were demonized and victimized by france and italy , eruze , and guattari extended the concept of otherness into the vampire . that set the stage for paradigmatic shift in homicidal understanding as another . increasingly , what protagonists have become the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself . the idea that a murderous monster can symbolize a protester or outcast , and thus merits sympathy , originated in the likes of french philosophers deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . in reality , has any monster not yet come to be seen as a potential conveyor of revolutionary imagery ?
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by a growing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to point the finger of questioning the value of democratic debate . but closing off discussion simply implies the disappearance of reason from public policy . in march , al gore , an adviser to science and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , reported that when it comes to tackling global warming , “ the democratic process is n’t working . ” while science has shown that co2 from fossil fuels is heating up the planet , policymakers have been reluctant to follow its advice , stopping the building on coal-fired power plants . hansen argues that , “ the first action people should take is to exploit the democratic process . ”
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election drove south koreans from 101st to 62nd worldwide in terms of the female mps ’ share , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . a major reason to increase female mps ’ scope was the introduction of a quota system under which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female . the campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government funding for parties that meet the quota , and to reduce the quantity for parties that do not . and , though south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s ’s most recent rankings , the fall reflects the subsequent growth in the share of female legislators in other countries . the campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government funding to parties that meet their quota and to reduce what is specifically targeted by women .
for bingham , a law must be open , and – insofar as possible – intelligible , it should be clear and predictable . everyone should be governed according to law , insulated from the personal latitude of those in power , and legal disputes should be resolved without a prohibitive cost or inordinate delay . courts and other formal adjudicative bodies should ensure fair procedures . there should be equality before a law coupled with an adequate safeguard for fundamental human rights . moreover , state power should be reasonably exercised , in good faith and purposes that it has conferred , with an independent judiciary and a court review of legislation ensuring that government does not transcend the boundaries of its authority .
it is the extreme right that has benefited the most from centrists . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without her backing , a minority liberal government would crumble . it is also the backlash that has benefited the majority of centrists . in france , the national front that finished second in the 2002 presidential election revitalized under marine le pen . in finland , the heretofore unknown party of finn capitalized on resentment around the eurozone ’s bailouts to finish the close third in april ’s general election .
on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both its imports and imports . the eu is paying into turkey in europe , while seehofer pays orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should . the fourth factor is , to be sure , german business interests . german companies made a lot of money in the so-called visegrád , four , the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia , which together amount to germany ’s largest trading partner . yet here , too , the hungarian tail is wagering a german dog .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its core trade partners since the eu decided to integrate itself within its co2 emission-control regime in its co2 emission-control scheme for all arrivals to and out of its territory , including transcontinental arrivals . meanwhile , china and the united states are outraged . chinese airlines in europe have delayed orders to purchase european aircraft as a whole . the us will need to purchase emission permits in exchange for its flights of ’ co2 emissions . the ceos of airbus manufacturer airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to tread .
i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center of europe ’s periphery , free of europe ’s responsibilities but full participation in its opportunities . indeed , when we in government looked carefully at the risks to london as a financial center from standing outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage us . but we were never in doubt that being out of europe was entirely different . and , for the record , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget , the price of negotiating it , despite not being a member . yes , special arrangements are possible to be negotiated , but each has to be individually negotiated .
it has also highlighted the rapidly growing pace of epidemiological transition among middle-income countries and persistence in communicable , maternal - and newborn health and nutritional disorders in sub-saharan africa . to help decision-makers contribute more effectively to the use of their data , the gbd institute for health metrics , and evaluation that i lead are creating geospatial maps of disease burdens with groundbreaking levels of resolution . policymakers are accountable , first and foremost , to their constituents whose unique needs they must meet . estimates of local disease burdens will be vital to combat afflictions like ebola , check the growing toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting sustainable-development goals concerning maternal and infant health in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health , provided they deliver more in-depth data breakdowns .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would need to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would need to rise by 20 % relative to the eurozone average . from this perspective , struggling countries would not be spared with painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union comprising competitive countries . to be sure , if germany were to abandon the common currency , a road back to competitiveness would be easier for southern countries , because the rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as the other competitive countries remain . spain , for example , would still need to cut its prices by up to 22-24 % relative to the new average for the eurozone . the only way to avoid it would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies .
one way to strengthen india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to establish our territorial equivalent of our territorial army , training selected fisherfolk at how to execute search-and-rescue operations . such training , combined with student affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent sea , would make for a highly effective reserve unit , put forward when disasters strike . but it may be time to consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to long-term dependency on fishing . another issue that is overlooked by targeting urgent and urgent financial forbearance is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi dropped completely everyday operations in some coastal areas in order to cause severe economic ( not to mention any emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fishing communities .
ramallah – the united states should stop pushing for a resumption of the palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best path to peace by acting on the ground that a paradox reflecting the widening gulf between the peace process and achieving genuine peace . make no mistake : this is not a call to arms , or an invitation to violent uprising . peace between the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through negotiation . but if one party cares more about the process than it needs peace , something must go wrong .
statements by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s rotating , six-month presidency earlier this year , are unambiguous : periods of reflection approved by the european commission in 2005 have ended . the maastricht treaties ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu , laying the foundations for political institutions equal to europe ’s economic power . the two world wars and cold war shaped european integration as a project of peace , defending the west ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to transcend a continent of historical divisions , now called for a redefining the european project . the nice treaty ( 2000 ) stemmed from a rather poor compromise .
but another crucial aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen quiet . after the government seized influence through independent tv networks , the ntv and tv6 , russia ’s media became vastly duller . part of the explanation for this is increased official control , part of the decline in the public interest , and part is that russia ’s problems nowadays simply seem less urgent . whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new stores and buildings . the newest fad is for clerics to prosecute newspapers for libel , demanding more than $ 1 million .
true , the united states is not denmark , right . but it is not wrong to ask what makes scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous and what americans can learn from them . one need not be an economist to grasp that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on its share of its population that does productive work in high-high-value jobs . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their people work , which pays decent wages to sustain a healthy , happy live living . according to oecd rankings by employment , the top seven countries around seven worldwide have welfare economies at their disposal .
berkeley – on my desk right now i am reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rising crisis of inequality and what we can accomplish about it , and milton and rose director director friedman ’s classic free to choose : personal statements . collectively , my noah friedmans assumed that friedmans would figure out their task in justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism far harder today than it did in 1979 . back then , friedmans had made three powerful fact-finding claims about how the world operates , claims that had appeared true , or , at least , true or at that time , arguably true at a fairly false point . their case for small-government libertarianism was largely on such claims ; and it has now mostly crumbled , for the whole world , disagreed with them on how it worked . the first claim was that macroeconomic hardship comes from a government , rather than from an unstable private market , or , that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability is straightforward and easy .
according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa is losing more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . the g20 members should work on this commitment , and establish a clear schedule for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending in 2017 onward , and a ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit to fighting tax avoidance and unraveling murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) , which are using to pump money out of africa . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as base cuts and profit shifting . the g20 members should step up tax-avoidance requests , prevent shell corporations from creating ; intensify efforts to fight money laundering ; and establish corporate-ownership areas .
the snriu makes this critical decision without key information on the health and environmental risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . most immediately , the unit two in southern ukraine ’s nuclear power units will reach that point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu will have to arrive at its intended lifetime end within the next five years . most immediately , the unit of two in southern ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , implying that the snriu will have to decide now whether to grant this unit of 20-year lifetime extension . as much as this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility as a signatory to the espoo convention to implement cross-border ecological impact assessment ( not to mention missed opportunities to consider potential alternatives to continuing a reactor ’s surgery ) , no such analysis is seriously expected to take place . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support to revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear installations until a cross-border assessment takes place .
and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making . as a result , global green-bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year . curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model of city food production . at the business level , more than 700 firms with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments , according to the us business coalition . and 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to the un climate 100-+ , a recent initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve governance on climate change , curb emissions , and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures .
already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . as proponents of asian values have argued , it is necessary for all human rights – civil and political , as well as social and economic – to strengthen . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a opposition . to succeed in restoring its robust growth path , east asia needs to deliver more justice than individual human-rights violations . but this has been no use of any real legitimacy to restore stability and growth .
whereas guarding against uncertainty have traditionally been a moral issue , hedging against risk is a strictly technical question . that was the main achievement of mathematical economics , arguably the first time ever . the primary uncertainty in people ’s lives – the destination of one immortal soul , nudges one toward morals . by contrast , a virtuous chinese save a high proportion of their incomes castigated western economists for their failure to understand that their duty to mankind was to spend . a key theoretical viewpoint in turning a debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of insecurity as risk .
having ruled over a grand coalition , with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . as a result , italy – as well as the european union – is headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce a fresh parliamentary majority forced another election the following month . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise . the crises in cyprus , which threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus out of the eurozone , could make the situation even more difficult to manage . but there is an approach that is both inefficient and unstable .
if trump wants to bar production from us offshore production and to spur overseas investment , us companies might soon see their companies pushed to consent “ voluntary ” measures of outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements . in the 1980s , for example , america entered into such agreements with a foreign car , " microchip , " steel , lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . but , just a couple of years ago , america 's auto industry pushed for requiring requirement in a trade treaty that grants it a minimum market share of american exports to south korea . some conditions that were imposed back then have ever since been prohibited by the world trade organization . trump is likely to scrap these tools further .
according to world resources institute data , america accounted for a astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions between 1850 and 2013 . and us per capita emissions remain higher than in any other large country by far . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been several times higher than the global average that owes world climate fairness rather than the other way around . the paris accord does not victimize america ; on the contrary , the us has a world-beating responsibility to get its home in order . america ’s population today amounts to just 4.4 % of the world ’s population .
since then , china ’s stock market has been the global laggard – that is , until the last year that it became the best-performing country in the world rose by more than 150 % . and yet a roller-coaster pattern continues to prevail : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market opened up on the monday that followed the largest two-day rise since 2008 . that rise was preceded by a loss of almost a third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early july . and it is this volatility that is another reason why a casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise – or will fall by double digits , without triggering a wider economic crash – at least not so far . for starters , china ’s gdp growth was crippled ( actually the economy grew at almost 10 % ) when the stock market lost half its value between 2001 and 2005 – or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to fall dramatically after the 2008 financial crisis ) .
but a very soon we arrive at the issue of anti-semitism in the americas . on one side are to be found in the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederates who descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to breach some blacks and jewish heads . tellingly , his trademark phrase , en même temps ( at the same time ) , which tends to be heard here as the expression of american-style pragmatism , perhaps the eu is one of the most visible traces of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . but , very soon , we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in the americas . far from reflecting on careful deliberation over an unambiguous choice , and simultaneously ” is the credo of someone suspended in dread and blur on the eve of an unsolvable and terrifying mystery of dual – physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected , tormented body of christ .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . argentines , who handed over a world über-populist juan domingo perón , or brazilians who brought us getúlio vargas , might beg to differ . writers such as john judis claim that nineteenth-century americans invented political populism , with its anti-elitist stances and inflammatory rhetoric . yet it is not so much a disagreement that latin americans have been the longest and best practitioners of economic populism in the world . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and chávez , engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed inflation rising , and , eventually , currency crises .
what is remarkable about all this is that it has lasted for so long . but it was a recent declaration by us secretary of defense robert gates that was especially shocking for the israelis . he expressed an understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons , because , as he put it , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , israel , russia , and israel . israel is bound to struggle against this emerging new american doctrine , which equates it with iran , or even with india and pakistan for the issue . political contexts matter ; israelis will argue , in their view , .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the victor of the country ’s november presidential election , with a 54.1 % vote . the united nations , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , calling on gbagbo to observe the people ’s will . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , gained 45.9 % of the vote . the united states , the european union , canada , and united nations secretary-general ouattara all congratulated ouattara , calling on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . one day after the result was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo , paul yao n’, annulled the results from seven northward departments , proclaiming gbagbo the victor in the election with 51 % of the vote . that decision reached little more than 24 hours later left much ivorians flabbergasted .
a quick approaching reflects not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of tibetan unrest in 1959 , which led to the exile of the dalai lama and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has taken many pro-active measures , even adopting the “ serf liberation day , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to defend its record in tibet from its previous 50 years , while continuing its rhetoric with the dalai lama ’s deputies . many of them will remain there because the global economic downturn has hit china hard , costing them a good place . compare that with the recent rush home for lunar new year ’s celebration of freak storms , this year millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural homes . swimming with a host of extremely sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than in 2008 .
but i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing checks to itself . dealing with the deficit has required difficult choices , from reforming the welfare system and raising the age of state pension to controlling public-sector salaries . we need responsible choices , in order to ensure that we can live within our means , and that is exactly what i was determined to deliver . success also requires taking bold steps to tear down trade barriers and open the economy toward investment from fast-growing countries like china and india . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition for making the economy sustainable over the longer term – but not sufficient .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world reveals precisely that . second , while pushing the tech frontier is the critical component of industrial growth , what matters for developing countries is transforming manufacturing and export structures , particularly by shifting resources to higher productivity levels . the key to achieving it lies in the capacity to diversify domestic manufacturing , by generating new activities , bolstering intra-country economic linkages , and the creation of new domestic technological capabilities . the construction of industrial and modern service industries is critical to successful diversification , and it is also critical to success . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activity are a proven recipe for failure , as shown by the sorry experience of much of the developing world in recent decades .
the oxford english dictionary gives as the earliest reference to its current usage of an academic article in 1972 . oed etymology ignores non-english origins in its term , which can be found in continental europe ’s inventive linguistic terminology on student radicalism . today , few can know where the term “ globalization ” has originated . that word was used earlier , but in a rather different sense . it was a diplomatic term conveying the linkage between disparate policy domains ( for example , when negotiating simultaneously on financial and security matters ) .
without his determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skillful diplomacy , the iraqi military program would not now face more scrutiny than it claimed to any other would-be proliferator today . reaching that extraordinary feat has been crucial to achieving that extraordinary feat . but precisely because it is extraordinary to see how implementing these threats by initiating a war can still make any sense at any moment . the best “ grave consequences ” of which the un security council warned should iraqis not honor their commitments would be an even sharper effort to destroy their illicit weapons through the continuous process of inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , rather than invaders . if inspections in iraq had been exposed as having lied and cheated that would constitutes a validation of inspections ’ effectiveness , scarcely a rationale for military reprisals .
of course , the historical analogies are imperfect , and they are also imperfect ; they are always possible . significant states would have an interest in minimizing damage by agreeing to collaborate on forensics and controls . obviously , cyber technology varies widely from nuclear technologies , in particular , because non-governmental actors would be able to exploit it far more easily . while their vision of a “ information security force ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship , and thus are unacceptable to democratic governments , identifying and targeting behaviors that are illegal everywhere may be possible . limiting all intrusions would be impossible , but one could start at the end of cyber crime and cyber terrorism .
much of its debt is actually owed within the state-owned system , – for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks – and the government could simply write off bad debts , and recapitalize the banks , fund the operation with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over their existing debt , extending new lending to service down old debts . but , as some chinese policymakers respond , every growth processes involve waste : the nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america created enormous overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation . indeed , with banks defaulting on harsh budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms and with a planning system incapable of imposing alternative efficient discipline , china is already awash in apartment blocks in third-tier cities that never take hold , with massive overcapacity in heavy industry sectors . to be sure , this would produce wasted investment .
moreover , namibia ’s government wisely understood that abundant natural resources could easily become a curse , enriching some few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in its infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacities , resource depletion will leave the country poorer , not wealthier . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians most likely from a country ’s means , and to rethink investment laws and revisiting mining deals in order to ensure that this is done . transparency is critical to such a process , which is why a government ’s powerful promotion of press freedom is so crucial . as president hage geingob has told us , the press often says things that they do n’t like .
naturally , much will depend on how it fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . nevertheless , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence and , into anastasiades over ’s history , provides a avenue for optimism . it is not unimaginable that this type of cooperation could expand to include other neighbors around the levant . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , harry nicos anastasiades , might be open to such an agenda . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokratikratikratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and that this would naturally be his top priority .
but the bottom line is that , in an era when everyone questions , “ what is europe doing ? ” the commission ’s own internal culture of castes and red tape creates a constraint that , say , nobody in brussels is much likes to talk about . it is not the structure that is conducive to political coups de theâtre , and most of the commission ’s work has been the eu ’s tireless grind through the eu ’s tireless grind and re-regulation . for reasons that are now obscuring it , there is an unwritten rule , which commission presidents need to be drafted from ranks of past or present premier ministers . yet the commission is calling on europe to be europe ’s dynamic public face .
but it is not at all clear that the uk is providing such security , particularly now that it is on a journey toward leaving the eu to its single market and customs union . as scotland confronts brexit ’s strategic challenges , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are superior to italy . britain chose to leave the eu because it has an outsized view of itself . but that will soon need to follow the model of a small-country like italy or norway . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that align more closely with other successful small economies – not least by uniting eu membership .
third , while companies recognize that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they are also humbled by their increasingly winner-take-all nature . as a result , many companies , less convinced that “ normal ” innovation yields large payoffs , end up investing less overall than they have in the past . in fact , successful innovations today are a lot less about funding , and far more concerning the finding of gone “ killer app ” to them . and , with china ’s excessive domestic credit expansion and shadow-banking system attracting heightened attention , many companies are becoming anxious . second , with china such an influential driver in terms of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through important web effects ) , the world ’s emerging-market outlook adversely affects projections for global corporate revenues .
stockholm – it has been one year since the failed coup in turkey , raising questions about the country ’s future continues to unfold . mutinous f-16 fighters bombed turkish parliament , losing 249 in the process . had the coup not been stymied in the first 48 hours , turkey most likely would have plunged itself into a devastating and violent civil war , with consequences extending well beyond its borders . yet the putsch failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who had then mobilized his own supporters , to sealed the coup ’s fate . last year , ’s attempted coup was nothing short of dramatic , if not quite dramatic .
seoul – once again , tension is on the rise across asia over north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s missile program . in contrast to its earlier “ surprise ” missile launch , north korea ’s ’s ’s government this time announcing international agencies advance its intention to launch a “ satellite , ” sometime between april 4 and may 8 . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its rocket , but what will happen afterward . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the start as their “ provocative act ” and a violation of united nations security council resolutions 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , just five days after north korea conducted its nuclear weapons test . yet , instead of hot-headed rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the army ’s implications of the missile launch .
it has been ten years since the eu launched its eastern partnership , establishing a more reliable framework for the bloc to cooperate with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . this initiative worth recalling was , in part , a response to the russian invasion of georgia earlier this year , when the kremlin tried to disband that country by acknowledging south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . in case , neither russia of its closest allies would agree to recognize those occupied territories or to legitimize its invasion of the eu . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome . and it has just held its first round of turkish presidential elections , which meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness .
it will follow either by the sighs of forbearance ( as i hope ) or by the cataclysm that rocks the eu embrace to its core , and by bringing disaster to the uk . but , while a british decide is needed , europe needs to address ’s many crises . without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to resolving crises , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to wield power and compromise on the entire eu project on peaceful integration based on the rule of law . a one-child policy is no longer sufficient , either . the brexit referendum will point the way in both the uk and the eu as a whole .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the choice of a international monetary fund managing director , the imf can go back to its core crisis-management business . christine lagarde , a competent and well-regarded technocrat , will have her hands at face value with three significant challenges . whereas the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems highly uncertain , the ensuing us press focuses on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unconstrained accounts , dominated by men with little regard for restraint . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic . the first , and perhaps the simplest , challenge concerns the imf to restore ’s public image .
the increase in the monetary base is , however , only temporary ; when the bond is redeemed , it reverts to its previous level . that eventual need to shrink the monetary base is an implicit claim on the central bank of assets ; as a result , the increase is rightly regarded as a liability for its balance sheet . because holders of distributed money have no claims on a central bank , a rise in the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but as an increase in the net worth of the central bank . in other words , helicopter money is not an interest-free loan to a government ; it is a gift . under a helicopter fiscal stimulus financed by helicopter money , the central bank never needs to reverse the buildup of the monetary base .
brazil ’s major summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk-index suddenly topped nigeria and short-run credits to international business dried up , began altering the face of the election . with sarney out , lula reigned supreme in the polls , reaching a 43 % low in mid-may . brazil has used the television time at its three-party employment alliance in late june to go to great effect , but most credit his rise from the polls to the superb performance of his second wife , a popular actress patricia pillar as they recover from breast-cancer days . her party accused serra of engaging in the attack , and in keeping with a vengeance , her party -- the liberal front , in power – cast its support among ciro gomes . then , in early july , pomes skyrocketed to 28 % , within the striking distance of lula , who dropped to 33 % .
following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . claremont , california – though the rapid de-escalation of violence in hong kong appears terrifying enough , things may be about what it is far worse . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the chinese communist party ’s 19th national central committee ( cpc ) indicates that , at all costs , chinese president xi jinping intends to tighten his grip on the former british colony . he should be preparing to shore up a formidable us bill . he should be preparing to square one with him .
and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has long been a vocal champion of anti-extremism initiatives , including a responsible religious educational far beyond its own borders . it has become a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing its share of renewable electricity generation – to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets . in addition , regional tensions – including the escalating political instability in algeria , and the thorny issue of western sahara – have hampered integration in the maghreb , an absolute necessity for unlocking prosperity in north africa . these flaws partly reflect enduring governance vulnerabilities , despite important political reforms , notably the constitutional changes that shifted powers from monarch to parliament , and legal reforms like aligning laws with european and international human-rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality .
after all , there is little reason to believe that a fiscal compact , or a proposed “ debt brake , ” will succeed where both the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . misplaced hope that the enforcement problem can be solved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions , possibly relying on a misunderstanding of the american system . to use eurobonds as a debt-overhang mechanism jeopardizes the longer-term goal of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the 60 % – of-gdp margin where countries will have the greatest difficulty resisting temptation . rules need a plausible enforcement mechanism , not waiting for it . to be sure , america ’s federal government never bailed out a state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) had laws or constitutional provisions that limit deficit spending .
india abides , for example , through a stricter definition of what constitutes an invention , one that avoids the “ evergreening ” : the process of extending a patent ’s life by consigning secondary patents for marginal improvements to a novel drug . but , since the trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all of the world trade organization ’s member states have been forced to recognized one another of their pharmaceutical patents . for indian drug makers , production of generic versions of patented drugs would require license , and such licenses are seldom if ever granted in some way . nonetheless , following the amendments to the indian patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the type of excesses that major pharmaceutical firms are routinely diverted to american and european companies . according to the section 3 ( d ) of the indian patents act , for the simple discovery of a new form of time , property , or … using the familiar substance , or due to a well-known process ” is not eligible for a patent unless it “ results in a new product , ” or employs at least one new reactant .
according to data from brazil ’s ’s national space research institute , the deforestation of brazil ’s indigenous section of the amazon increased in june by more than 88 % year on year . but bolsonaro does not want to keep the amazon chaste ; he simply wants to be among the reasons exploiting it . his promotion of the development rainforest and his assault on environmental regulation have led , for example , to the prevalence of agribusiness , particularly cattle ranching , as well as illegal logging . with characteristic misogyny , he recently proclaimed that brazil is like the virgin that each foreign pervert wants to strike off ” ” ” ” ” ” . foreign-actors that criticize brazil ’s exploitation of the rainforests – from european governments to pope francis – promote biodiversity only in order to exploit it in the future .
most obviously , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea – unlike iran , which , unlike iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching american soil in the south . trump may have started to recognize that increasing pressure on north korea will not exclude sitting down the line of negotiation with kim . of course , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . kim seems perfectly willing to subject the north koreans to the privations of every sort to remain in power .
a well-designed us currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . a third argument against the establishment of anti-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . but this reflects a profound misunderstanding of the issue . conventional monetary policy operates through altering short-term interest rates , which implies that the central bank buys and sells short-term government debt . none of the intervention in the foreign-exchange market of its purchases and selling its foreign currency .
after all , it would not be funny if a famine charity dedicated to famine relief also celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in this case would become paramount , for this case it is the only true reason for a charity to exist . but a joke would not work unless there are simultaneously yet another widely shared assumption that the scientific knowledge is independent of any practical utility . on this view , the goal of science , too , has a rather different , higher purpose : understanding the natural world . so it ’s ’s funny to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether experimental physics , math or cosmology , has become superfluous . so , while the potential usefulness is the rationale that governments devote so much money to academic research , people really expect more from science than it does .
new york – over the past year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization have emphasized the need to place human rights at the center of the response to the zika outbreak . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with far too little responsibility , while giving them too little power – do not lose on everyone . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration claimed $ 1.8 billion of emergency financing to help prepare for , and responding to , the zika threat . yet abortion politics has intervened because republican legislators , leading a congressional hearing on the zika outbreak , made funding conditional on recipient countries ’ anti-abortion policies . the us position has not helped matters , either .
such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public , as well as to the people of tunisia , egypt and other arab countries . if they become consolidated democracies as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs might end up worrying so much about official corruption . at long last , the eu would use these countries ’ demographic wealth to meet its development needs . it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and to follow its borders against migrants . and start-up loans from europe would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortune back home .
of course , what is advantageous for tomorrow can become problematic : europe and japan confront severe problems when their demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic benefit that they have relative to america today . but this is not what we all economies are ails their economies now . edmund phelps of columbia university argues that these slow-growing countries lack a “ dynamism , ” which it defines both a combination of an entrepreneurial spirit and a large enough financial institution to channel it . both spirit and the needed financial institutions must be present to allow for “ creative destruction ” – the force that joseph schumpeter argued sixty years was the engine of capitalist prosperity – to be unleashed . but is this an accurate description of economic slow-growing countries today ?
lula and his party are thus far outside the mainstream of economic thought and of policies that capital has already started fleeing -- even when elections are months away . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds him in another . lula 's popularity ignacia da silva and his team , leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil 's presidential elections , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is poised to reject traditional governments . institutions are torn down , property rights are challenged , and a random , ever more corrupt , redistribution efforts are underway . peru and venezuela are scarcely looking better ; brazil may follow the same course soon .
in its recent african energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy consumption will rise to over 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population almost doubling , less energy per person will be available . and yet western activists seem convinced that the world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied with deficient , irregular supplies of electricity . few in the rich world would switch to renewables without tough subsidies ; certainly nobody would cut their connectivity in the largely fossil-fuel-powered grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( another form of subsidies ) . the iea estimates that renewable powers would still incur more costs , on average , than any other resource , oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro ; even with a carbon tax . by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person per year of less than what is needed to keep one two-watt led permanently into halving .
indeed , in 2011 and early 2012 , there was much talk of a crash in china ’s residential housing market , with the chain-price response of defaults in subterranean credit networks and local-government financing vehicles ( lbs ) . with its relatively sluggish growth , corporate profitability , upon which returns from the shadow-banking system ’s shadow-banking system are based , is both low and falling . in 2013 and early 2012 , there was much talk of a crash in china ’s housing market , with the chain-price response of defaults in underground credit networks and local-government financing platforms . so , where , then , will the high returns on financial products provided by the shadow-banking system come from ? in 2013 and early 2012 , total assets managed by the shadow-banking system were rising exponentially during 2012 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 .
but , while the industry is facing the threat of inflated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are the eu ’s abundance and national energy regulation . europe ’s industries are buffeted by a similar number of problems . refining and the petrochemicals sector supply the eu with much of its fuel , and it is also a major source of tax revenue . the downstream industries , together with the distribution of fuels , are contributing collectively to the treasury ’s coffers . by any reckoning , this is an important industry that should not suffer from over-regulation .
in fact , some eu leaders ’ own approaches to issues like immigration threaten to create the systemic problems that will endure long after trump returned to the life of a golf club and bankruptcy court . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values to protect its minorities , and has welcomed the poor and downtrodden . the answer appears to be that its centrist german chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed ahead with trump . sensible europe ’s leaders can be forgiven politely to send the uk on its way , in order to advance their attention to the threat of their long-run cohesion , as well as fundamental values . yet draining away from europe will require much more than scolding american and praying for trump ’s early passage .
but recognizing fallibility can , in fact , be empowering , because it implies opportunities for improvement in both economics and politics . if the world is to be too complicated and unpredictable for either markets or governments to pursue societal goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed in such a way that political decision-making can constrain economic incentives , and vice versa . moreover , policymakers need to rethink the type of ideological super-structure that is erected on market-fundamentalist assumptions . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing , and current political mood certainly appears to reflect this . if the world is characterized by ambiguities and unpredictability , the pre-crisis economy theories of rational expectations , efficient markets , and monetary neutrality must be revised .
nor can austerity alone suffice , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments – 5 % of gdp – by spain ’s case , which is likely to resist them , as the greeks have done . governments must also work to reduce the size of their existing debt and the deficient global demand that it contribute . simply put , it is unsustainable for highly leveraged governments to inflate their way out of debt . a more effective approach would employ a wider array of tools , including debt restructuring . similarly , it would be difficult but not impossible , to rein in incentives , formulated by almost all countries ’ tax regimes , for corporate leverage .
and others make it more tangible , like by giving away the personal data in exchange for access to any service . but silicon valley ceos are not robin hoods , either . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . tech entrepreneurs may tell their investors that they are seeking global change , but many are intoxicated with the notion that the world is better off by selling their business to the highest bidder .
likewise , khan ’s positions in favor of gay marriage have made him a fatwa for apostasy , from fearsome head imam of the bradford mosque . for europe , this is a necessary principle , to be sure . but one still has to abide by , and must admit , that khan did not yielded on these issues the facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel . moreover , he never wavered on critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or expresses his dismay at the increasing number of niqabs and hijabs are now seen in london ’s avenue of streets – which prevents people , he says , from speaking a face-covering . one might say that no less , with a bright future in churchill ’s homeland , might reasonably be expected .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second payments services services directive ( psd2 ) was crucial in opening up the us banking system ; and regulators , like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority , have for a time been running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants , by helping them to structure themselves to abide standards . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” requires banks to offer their customer data over non-bank providers of payment and account of information services . even now , the list of fsb contributors shows that both the european commission and key regulators in europe and north america have not been engaged . aggregators may then present the customer with a fully integrated view of their funding and offer add-on services . perhaps the time has come to assess the financial-stability risk of open-banking operations within the consultations period prior to the directive came out .
by contrast , a traditional development economist would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by converting the wood to paper or furniture – something that finland , too , does . but the entire wood-related goods represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . some ideas go worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary concerns – say , the availability of raw materials – and blinds societies to the wider promises that may lie elsewhere . consider finland , the nordic country clustered with many trees over its small populations . a classical economist would argue that , given this , a country should export the timber that finland did .
we need to get to about 50 grams per capita kilowatt-hour by 2050 rather than 500 grams per kilowatt-hour . this more profound transformation , contrary to many policymakers ’ low-hanging fruit today , provides the only pathway to climate safety ( that is , remaining well within 2ºc limit ) . by pursuing coal to gas or more efficient gas-burning vehicles , we risk placing ourselves in a high-carbon trap . we need to get to access to zero-emission vehicles , rather than more efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that so many vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but the zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicle charged by a zero-carbon electricity grid .
rather than becoming the agents of change , it often prevents change . the productive transformation required by developing countries is far easier to achieve with support , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . but securing such support requires undertaking policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates toward exporting industries that can grow beyond domestic boundaries – an industries in which competition induces discipline that they lack because they dominate local markets . ( indeed , a large economic debate in south korea nowadays worries whether the chaebols are stifling innovation , simply by preventing start-up competitors from challenging it . ) to succeed , conglomerates need government backing ; and adopting society .
what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? how will it define its interests within those countries ? indeed , does it see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of shia arabs ? negotiating would also require covering contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of contemporary hotspots . working groups might be created to try out a shared narrative .
given that china will be the most important market for the future , it will prove decisive in determining not only what the us produces and consuming , but how . moreover , notwithstanding european illusions about the contrary , this will be decided in china , rather than in the west . domestically , china will be the first country to pursue a “ green ” economy , owing to its sheer size and required gdp growth . otherwise , china would quickly reach its “ limits on growth , ” ” ” with disastrous ecology , and political consequences as a result . consider the shift from a traditional us automobile focus to electric transport .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must articulate the clear intent of reducing sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels , which are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . high-german diplomat reportedly has dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rate recently , on the grounds that spain has been borrowing at almost equal rates in the 1990s ’s l90s . but that statement , oddly , has ignored spain ’s ’s ’s higher pre-euro inflation rate , thus blending real and nominal rates and pursuing more rapid gdp growth . for the countries following agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit to carrying down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , and to announce how much longer ( say , nine months ) this will continue . an sporadic program without such announced targets is unlikely to work ; and could even be counterproductive , because private investors might well demand even higher returns because the ecb ’s growing share of gdp would be regarded as senior , augmenting its risk .
inflation targeting was best known as the rule , which instructed central banks to set it , and was trying their best to attain , an objective range for the annualized change in the consumer price index ( cpi ) . but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent credit-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s general argument , that a credible commitment to low inflation required favoring rules over discretion , remains very influential . there were also proponents of a flexible inflation rate that held that it was fine to put some weight on short-term gdp growth in the short run , so long as there was an explicit longer-term target for cpi inflation . but some felt that it was stretched too far if that definition was stretched too far . close to cousins included in the instead of the inflation rate and targeting core inflation ( the cpi minus its volatile food and energy prices ) .
firms in advanced economies are now cutting their jobs , owing to inadequate final demand , which has resulted in excess capacity and uncertainties over future demand . because a firm ’s labor costs are someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a one firm to be destructive at the aggregate level . but cutting jobs weakens final demand further , because it lowers labor incomes and increases inequality . in america , for example , slashing labor costs have sharply reduced labor ’s share of income in gdp . the result now is that free markets do not generate sufficient final demand .
but , with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of such jobs varies greatly from substituting for it . after all , the whereas taa targets individuals directly without foreign competition , much of the competition it confronts in local economies does not come from abroad ; and many job losses are lost are not in industries that directly affect outside competition , but in the surrounding economy . meanwhile , employment in the amazon has grown some 47 % in the last year , to 341,000 . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , taa is not a solution for that kind of ailment . nor does import tariffs help those left unemployed by blockbuster videos ’ bankruptcy , borders books , compusa , circuit city , payless , or virgin megastores .
after that spectacular russian default , however putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic and faces the threat of a genuine democracy spreading to russia ’s neighbor . for the first time in history , ukrainians have cast their little-brother complex towards the russian overboard . yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of the type that putin defeated at home , and yanukovych has accused yushchenko of selling ukrainian companies to russian corporations . furthermore , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can only turn to russia , as is president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . president putin ’s behavior is arguably best explained by his dislike some of democracy , at most .
with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies . to be sure , agricultural development can carry serious economy-wide pitfalls that must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains are shrinking the number of farm workers needed , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and manage migration to become even more vital . fortunately , africa ’s large populations of an increasingly well-educated young population that is largely unconcerned about backward work of subsistence farming are well suited to fill the higher-value-added jobs that emerge – in and outside the agricultural sector . another potential pittsburgh of agricultural development is environmental damage , including land degradation ; soil nutrient mining ; excessive water use and water pollution .
such critics worry that this will make it harder to persuade countries to cut emissions further when there is a sign that their collective endeavors are not enough , and that this may even enable some countries to use irregular accounting methods . this almost surely is not what is happening , at least not yet . for many of the agreement ’s critics , particularly that of the ecb ’s critics , these compromises have made the lima agreement overly “ bottom-up ” agreement . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by a shared set of “ top-down ” rules imposed by the agreement . but this overlooks the lima treaty ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the world ’s longstanding division into just two kinds of countries , developed and developing .
indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul ’s national university and a leading backer of the city ’s ’s ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korea ’s politics by gushing broad comments that it might be a presidential nominee . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all of the country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee kuan yew , attracting young people equally as well . ahn ’s most clear merits are his personal history of overcoming the severe challenges and his modest behavior . at the same time , her refusal to strike out on its own is arguably the main reason that it continues to lead various opinion polls . so far , recent polls indicate that a majority of voters mistrust the incumbent government and the ruling party .
can we determine the economic value of protecting a natural world ? some people will balk at the idea of placing a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protections as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly agree , too , that preventing human death and suffering , while providing quality food , water , and education to all is vitally important . the reality is that there simply are n’t enough resources to do everything . dhaka , we humans are not just sharing the planet with a variety of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we also depend on them for our survival .
widespread infrastructure gaps persist in many emerging and developing countries , notably in power and transportation . and , elsewhere in the region , small pacific island states , particularly – vulnerability to the impacts of climate change is increasing . this shifting landscape calls for bold action on a few fronts as well . while a clear response will undoubtedly need to be tailor-made for individual countries ’s particular circumstances , some recommendations could help most countries as well : · because inflation remains low throughout much of the region ; monetary policy should remain supportive of growth when there is a case for downside risk materialize .
it plans to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat , an attitude that places it at odds with india . indeed , the most prominent bilateral relationship every brics country is with the united states . the brics ’ notion represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural . they are generally united in their frustrations with one , for example , but not in their proposed response to it , of the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . if the brics countries are to jell as a pressure group in international relations , they need to agree on what they believe in their attainable political and economic goals .
i then focused on the responsibilities of the internet and gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following sequence of events : i then focused on the responsibilities of the internet of things and gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) . first and foremost , an almost infinite amount of speech is established by digital democracy . the web then becomes a crowd , a free-for-all where all shows armed with his or her personal opinions , convictions , and truths . and , a third , there was the “ deconstructionism ” of a post-nietzscheans . by historicizing ’ willingness to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , imposing truth – into quotation ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating exhibit from its referent ( louis althusser ) , and miring clearly in the miasma charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it down in borroknots ( jacques lacan ) , they most likely lost us truth and irreversible aspects of contact .
solna , sweden – elite sports and doping have long been deeply interdependent . but a damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year ’s summer ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro , has brought it to the headlines of public consciousness . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practices – and to save the elite ’s sports – . reaching the level of the elite in sports requires tremendous amounts of hard work , dedication , and focus . by definition , few succeed , but those that do may enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon be a thing of the past . but isis ’s defeat and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east or even an end to the syrian tragedy . pursuing this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or even to establish anything like a resilient framework for peace . a continuation of this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own or to establish anything like a resilient peace framework . berlin , with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) , could soon be a thing of the past .
why are we tend to under-invest in the resilience of our economies of nature ? one argument is that redundancy looks like it in normal times , with cost-benefit calculation that govern higher investment . that seems clearly wrong : numerous expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . even rapid responses becomes more effective when crucial networks and systems – especially the electricity grid – become resilient . this leads to a second , more credible explanation , of the psychological and behavioral nature .
right ahead of the fed ’s actions , india ’s reserve bank of india has raised its benchmark short-term interest rate 25 basis points , to its 6.25 % run to fight inflation , and the people ’s central bank is now indicates that it may raise interest rates further . in the west , concerns about the effects on chinese growth have been triggered by a fearful sell-off in markets . meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction . in october , people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , responding to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year treasuries and lending rates to 25 basis points , to 2.5 percentage points , and to 5.56 % , respectively – the former increases since 2007 . in brazil , interest rates remain at close to 11 % , on average .
they have little if any say over domestic and international regulations . larger firms have more capacity to pooling resources for research and development that holds the key to china ’s ’s ’s aspirations to move up the value ladder . less fragmented industries lobby for the better , too . traditionally , contracts manufacturers in china have become dispersed and fiercely competitive . for example , producers in jiangsu were forced to adjust steadily to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets .
this may have been true of china at one time ; it can no longer be true today . but the “ exit strategies ” literature , on how to substitute a currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate , makes clear that the moment when china could navigated this transition smoothly has now gone . this puts chinese policymakers at the mercy of a iranian tourist that is asking directions to dublin , and is told , “ well , sir , if you were you ; i would n’t start from here . ” there is no question that a country would be better off using a more flexible exchange rate that removed one-way bets on the speculators , acting as an economic shock absorber . countries can exit pegged rates smoothly only when they are confident of an economy , fostering confidence that the more flexible exchange rate can appreciate just as much as the weakening .
a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force government-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) might have worked . the senate ’s provision on derivatives provides a sound litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing these constraints , have clearly lined up side-by-side with large banks . yet the american government remiss to walk away from things as they do . the legislation was not intended to ban derivatives , but merely to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized by taxpayers ( remember the $ 180 billion of aig ’s bailout ? ) that is not a natural or inevitable by-product of lending . there are a number of ways in which major banks are curbing major banks ’ excesses .
unfortunately , the most recent political incident involving american ngos ’ democracy-promotion activities has chilted bilateral relationships , threatening the $ 1.3 billion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states . egypt ’s ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , soaring inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . if finalized , the imf program could trigger additional aid packages by the world bank and other international donors . should the aid materialize , egypt could start addressing some of its funding problems ; but , over time , it has yet to pursue a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to involve the private sector in revitalizing the country ’s economy .
being physically present at work means engaging direct contact with other , sharp , creative thinking . interestingly , i heard this point at the wpp ’s stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people went on to meet face up to sharing ideas and strengthening work relationships . and the benefit of human contact and interaction is why salespeople still appeal to , rather than relying on skype , and why meetup ( which supports face-to-face meetings organizers ; i am on a company ’s board ) changes lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do . of course , those who prefer to work at home cite not only the costs and timing of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – over-culture , perhaps – and steady stream of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . cafeteria ( now more open and more frequented with the advent of out-of-food ) or meetup halls , proximity matters .
as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and the pace of the market appear to be assuming greater weight when it comes to such decisions . but , on its own , globalization itself is not in retreat . whereas global goods trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , digital information flows have grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovations worldwide . on the near future , 3d printing could reduce further the need for ship goods across long distances . if trade in global goods has actually peaked relative to global gdp , then it will be tougher for poorer countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops .
but , in other respects , a world of globalization , with chinese characteristics , will be different from what we know . compare the standard post-world war ii practice with that of china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements , and less on multilateral negotiating processes . in 2002 , china signed the wto framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . as xi put it at davos in march 2017 , what is committed is china “ to the growing challenge of the open global economy . ” xi and his circles clearly will not seek to dismantle the global trading system .
within singh ’s congress party , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives , with its “ pro-poor ” program . the us congress can rightly take credit for the most far-reaching such a program , mahatma gandhi ’s national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor , rural family of 100 days per year of paid employment . part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt the electorate ( higher diesel prices , fewer expensive cooking-gas cylinders ) have a immediate impact , whereas the benefits of a foreign investment program takes years to become apparent . all politicians in democracies seem to think in a short-term perspective ; few have the time horizons that extend far beyond the next election . with his 20-year record of accomplishment to depicting the public , singh holds a better case than most to be trusted by disaffected voters when he says that he acts in their long-term interests .
this means that , like the credit provided by italian and spanish banks over the past few months , most of the new money will essentially be lent locally to safe households and large established firms . banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements , and to rebuild their balance sheets on financial health , which implies using ecb money to provide it in ways that enables them to meet that objective most cost efficiently . so , when they use the cash to continue financing the private sector , they ensure that the loans go to creditworthy customers . that will enable bank markets to continue to function , but it will not be able to inject the kinds of stimulus that europe ’s economies require on this point today . an alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and banque de france : buy by europe ’s banks of their countries ’ government-bond holdings .
in doing so , it would improve its standing both in europe and beyond . but symbolic steps , while important , remain insufficient to bring about genuine progress . turkey ’s government needs to demonstrate its commitment to making its laws and institutions effective in protecting the rights of all of its citizens . turkey has an important role to play in its region and the world – one that is undermined by its ongoing denial of the armenian genocide . its resentful approach to containing the country ’s genocide violates its efforts to reputation as an honest , reliable partner .
and yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign-investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin american countries has ’s fdi promotion agencies has been successful in adopting best practices . furthermore , foreign investors are unwilling to come to terms with diplomats or civil servants . they want to talk to private-sector experts that understand their companies or industries ’ technical and financial needs . for that , fdi must be promoted in isolation from domestic investment and exports . many promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failures of such institutional arrangements in the historically .
large mining companies can prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials such as iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , rare earth elements , and lithium , along with the mineral fertilizers that will be required on a large scale to meet sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . companies with a large fossil-fuel portfolio , like coal , will soon face severe uncertainty linked to stranded assets , and can alter their risk assessments accordingly . phasing out coal during times of latent overproduction might even do away at profit . third , the world needs a better way to assess mining ’s ecological risks . with the paris climate agreement every year old , transformative global fossil-fuel markets are just a matter of time .
but the skewed diffraction pattern -- intensities and individual reflections -- represents only about half of the data needed to decapitate the structure of a diffracting object . it gives a amplitude in math , but not a phases -- that is , a stages in a oscillatory motion -- without which atomic positions could not be fixed . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , came in cambridge in 1935 to work as graduate students with bernal offices . the following year he was awarded excellent hemoglobin crystals , and soon produced the best x-diffraction patterns on the date . he also acquired the first x-ray patterns of partly oriented samples of dna .
the endgame to establish the european union ’s final shape is underway . it began with the publication praesidium of the convention on europe future in europe from the draft of the first sixteen articles of a “ treaty to establish a european constitution . ” the text mostly replaced the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d'estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution presented last november and conclusions reached out to the convention ’s working groups . the key word must be made up mostly . such fidelity did not hold for economics , because it has not been towards such fidelity .
driven by population growth and urbanization , demand is outstripping supply . in pakistan , for example , the 2008 census , scheduled for nine years , beset by problems when it finally took place . in africa , where $ 68-108 trillion a year ’s infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 trillion , firms pay more to engage in entrepreneurship . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of firms ’ firms experience electrical power outages , costing it more than 15 % of their annual sales , on average . likewise , whereas every company needs data for investment , and for operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always reliable , and are often skewed by policy agendas .
the bbc media ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . russia today has less press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 . each of these outlets has drawn distinction with its coverage of sensitive narratives , from the conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . in crimea and chechnya , even the most rudimentary media protections are nonexistent . nor have the closures spared prominent regional outlets such as siberian broadcastertv-2 , or kaliningrad their top independent weekly newspapers , novye kolesa .
madrid – earlier this month , a group of thousands assembled for the un climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , the expectations for continued progress and continued collaboration are high . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the management of carbon pricing ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments , and more than 180 companies and strategic partners , to put the value on carbon-dioxide emissions dramatically . today , with countries , their citizens , and a growing number of businesses worldwide , are finally taking action . the idea is straightforward : if we are to meet the paris accord a target to limit the rise in global average temperature to below 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels , supposedly to 1.5 ° above preindustrial levels , we must cut emissions dramatically .
but , crucially , it could step in – provided that northern europe would permit . there is nothing stopping spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in greece , norway , or new york . at that point , one thing that still stands between the eurozone , facing financial turmoil , and lending chaos , will be the ecb , which could buy the government bonds and rescue bank runs . the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to massive credit risk . once greece goes , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , have frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader , lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . but , more important , lee also relied on elements of the democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy triumphed over patronage . yes , lee ’s system has enabled him to remain in power for the first 31 years and to use civil , rather than criminal , courts to harry his opponents . here , it seems clear that unmo ’s major political interests were allowed to dictate that the country , home by key opposition leader , should be tried on charges that no true democracy compile the rule of law would even consider leveling again , with convicted prior evidence that no truly independent court would be accepted . yet the path upon which the two countries embarked was lee ’s path .
are all his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” as us senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely called them ? trump , at the comedian jpmorgan stewart , is “ america ’s ’s ’s ’s id , ” ” or at least an id of a large number of predominantly white , predominantly white , predominantly small-town americans . yet trump is part of a wider phenomenon throughout the democratic world as well . trump ’s critics argue that he plays to the basest instincts of disaffected voters who antagonize foreigners ( particularly mexicans ) , mistrust bankers ( or anybody with a college education , for that matter ) , and still can not shake over the election of a us president whose father was blacks . there are now , to this day , all that might be so .
in europe , the picture , too , is mixed . spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s big economies , has been sky-rocked to 20 % , and continues to show little sign of improvement . meanwhile , the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 and is expected to shrink this year by about 0.4 % . meanwhile , former boom countries – greece , ireland , spain , and spain – remain mired in recession ; and their gdps will continue to shrink . for finland , brussels , and italy , below-average growth rates are expected .
after all , that ’s the advice of multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities such as britain ’s national health service . healthy living now means water bottled with us , sipping at all times , trying to drink our daily quota in order to ensure that we stay hydrated and safe . indeed , often we drink without being thirsty , but that is precisely how cupi-maker maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brains can know many , but wo n’t know when a body ’s body is thirsty . ” undoubtedly , drinking this much feels unconvenient but powerade provides this type of sage counsel : “ you may be able to train a gut to tolerate more fluid intake if you are building your fluid intake gradually . ” malmö – “ everybody ” – “ everybody is aware of ” that you should drink eight water glasses every day .
firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , and face an unprecedented risk of sanctions on their borrowing costs . at the same time , they face large uncertainties . so , what type of power plants will become acceptable in the future ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide , as in the past ? can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling households in their far-flung communities requiring long-distance automobile commutes ?
currently , the alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles the elements of challenge . likewise , though past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect of action is better this time around , given the ongoing debate in europe , where the impact of migration crises has been deep . moreover , weak mandates , insufficient financing , disabling structures , and the absence of a system of global governance have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ capacity to act with the authority of the most vulnerable . as i argue in germany this week , g20 leaders convene in hamburg on july 7-8 have the opportunity to reshape migrant governance ’s system with proactive protection policies that would enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . these include independent groups , like refugees international ( milon ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for the next few decades . by the late 1950s , there were roughly the world ’s 2000 computers , and their electrical power averaged a 10,000 machine-making instruction per second . the scale of the investment required to make what is known as “ moore ’s law ” has grown exponentially along with the density of the transistors and circuits ; but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force ; and engineers see no instant barrier lifting the process of upgrading to a halt anytime soon . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co _ _ founder gordon moore noted that improvements in semiconductor fabrication permit a doubling of the density of the transistors on a chip each eighteen months . now , worldwide , with processing power averaging a couple of hundred million instructions per second , a four _ fold increase in the raw automated computational power , the average annual rate of growth above 56 % !
xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” ” ” ” and right now , on the brink of a rising new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain health-care access . these multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge the gaps in the developing regions . but neither the companies nor governments can do it alone . by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping our students to provide health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . they need working together to achieve the best possible outcome .
fortunately , it still has time , with many previous american presidents setting a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the state department to begin “ substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . and , beginning with the annapolis conference in late 2007 , george w. bush mediated a range of talks between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now it is obama ’s turn , and , again , that he should push for a un security council resolution that establishes new parameters for future peace accord , and replaces united nations security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria . at the end of 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace .
loughner , in 2011 – including congresswoman gabrielle giffords – attracted global attention , as was a court-ordered review of his mental competency assessment . though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in america , coverage by the media continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . indeed , on the us side of the world there , an australian newspaper mentioned giffords 160 times in the six months after the firebombing , compared to just one reference over the preceding 12 months . likewise , cho ’s history of mental illness was universally discussed . in this manner , america may well exporting a mental-illness stigma on the rest of the world .
ukraine is a large country , with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential in many sectors . it is a pivotal front in the global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . for europe , it represents a singular opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . still , ukraine ’s ’s economy has shrunk by more than two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it europe ’s poorest country . far more important , successful reform in ukraine makes positive developments in russia more likely .
at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like a dollar , given the eurozone ’s lack of a federalized public state . realigning relative prices would require an internal devaluation that might lead to social and political instability in weaker countries . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness via austerity and reform . civil unrest , and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s southern members , exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . but such a strategy carries serious risks , which ultimately stymie it .
the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations and central-bank credit guarantees of disorderly markets demonstrate insufficient value . economists disagree about when , on what circumstances , governments should move beyond these first two items on a checklist . should governments try to raise monetary velocity through bond selling , thereby bolstering short-term interest rates ? should they employ unemployed workers , either , directly or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures , or by expanding the scale of government programs ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ?
the uk ’s council of ministers mainly responsible for talks , a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence , has so far managed to secure agreement in one key area : following march 2019 ’s deadline , a biennial transition period . it also includes a promise to abandon the eu ’s single market and customs union . but even that deal is not set in stone , because it depends on whether negotiators can first agree on what to do about the irish border between greece and northern ireland as soon as the uk leaves the customs union . either way , one can enter either a customs union with no borders or outside a customs union with a border . it also includes a promise to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union .
a broader definition is needed , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric 2 % inflation target within a 1.5-2.5 % band over a longer time horizon . given the eurozone ’s ’s fragmented nature , this mandate would most likely remain centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that current definitions of price stability account for price stability – “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term – are simply too narrow . ” at the same time , the eurozone is highly comparably fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , a unifying safe asset , or a force for macroeconomic stabilization and stability . what the ecb does need , above all , a more realistic , flexible mandate .
israel and palestine should jointly bid for , and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup . when it comes to wishing for a middle east peace process , virtually the next year of ­ - one really needs careful attention . so many hopes have been dashed by the bitter failure of so much negotiations . but the us also has its desire for a middle east , one that , while perhaps not bringing peace , can establish one of the preconditions of peace : goodwill . looking ahead , the israel-palestine conflict has lasted for far too long .
notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who are joining either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some of the motives are no less than plain . so the real question is how to get to where iraq has a police force and the army , which can be trusted to uphold the rule of law as it is to order . sharia law , in other areas , is being introduced by force . in north iraq , there are old scores , and de facto ethnic segregation is being introduced in regions like irbil , that have traditionally been diverse . much of the ground has to be covered up to get anywhere near , and to some extent .
given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . its unemployment rate is around 10 % ( still less than half that of spain ) and annual gdp growth stands at about 1 % ( spain ’s is negative ) . the disparities between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggest that the distinction between the old and new europe remains valid , if not how rumsfeld meant . it would be inaccurate , of course , to oppose a prosperous poland to a collapsing spain . but moods in both countries , together with their perceptions of europe and their role in it , contrast starkly .
berlin – the united kingdom ’s voters ’ decision to “ brexit ” the european union is no example of the british black humor that i love . yet it will not be destroying europe , at least for now . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military relevance , brexit will leave a gaping lacken hole within the eu . it ’s not “ monty python ” ’s flying circus , ” “ yes , prime minister , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ’s yes , prime minister , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” or “ fawlty towers ” ; it is such a mere boris , michael , and nigel farage , and their catastrophic political reality show . the same can not be said of the uk alone .
yet the international community , palestinians , and arabs all all bear responsibility , if at various levels . as israel celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember the nakbeh or “ disaster ” – their narrative of dispossession , preoccupation , and statelessness . despite providing lip service to peace , the israeli military ’s refusal to abandon the occupied territories remains in direct contravention of what united nations security council resolution 242 termed the “ undue acceptance of land by force . ” but , for both parties , along with external powers , the events of 1948 , and what followed , as well as the occupation since the 1967 borders of un security council resolution 242 , represents a tragic failure . israel is most at fault for this failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements .
tantalizingly , they say , doing this would produce a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , ” although they do not explain how this market is structured at all . reducing uncertainty might augment , or even superior , fiscal stimulus programs to deal with , say , the root cause of unwillingness to spend . moreover , recession insurance might run counter to fiscal policy , imposing no government costs , for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk being insured against it is being insured . the government ’s capacity to offer such insurance at a scale sufficient to make it costless effective is just one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . blanchard and his colleagues note that , at the time , banks could make lending to firms on their purchase of recessionary insurance , which might help credit markets function better to address the serious problem underlying the current crisis .
second , removal of imbalances is the responsibility of national governments as part of a rescue regime , arranged by supranational bodies , the european commission , and the european central bank in cooperation with the council of europe , which , in turn , represents national governments . so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s foundations . the greek saga demonstrates that it can not check destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crises . the imbalances are not merely the result of irresponsible policies ; they are a result of them . first , they need to maintain fiscal and external-account balances to be held in check in order to ensure financial stability and maintain a common currency .
specifically , china ’s “ two systems ” in one country ” enabled exports to bonded warehouses in hong kong to pad trade statistics . as a result , its trade surplus has continued , falling , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing anxiety over a china slowdown . china ’s downturn looks sudden ; after all , its exports rose at double-digit rates each month until may . in reality , the chinese economy ’s true condition has long been obscured , but it has now been exposed by tougher regulation of activities , such as the speculative trading of the renminbi masquerading as trade payment . moreover , chinese exports , at times , would rise in the face of a slump that is shipped out of ports .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders follow newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , m & a is only a first step on a long road . just as chinese firms invest overseas , as mine does nowadays in latin america , they have a responsibility not just to invest wisely and sustainably for the sake of their companies , they also to integrate their strategies with china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s national investment priorities . to most equity investors , the value of any project depends on a lot of effective post-investment management . clear rights and obligations thus need to be worked carefully at starting an investment , something that was all but absent in the past .
to make a proactive contribution to peace means that japan bears its own share of responsibility for assuring us security that supports global prosperity and stability . and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s ’s ’s self-defense forces . members of the self-defense forces , displayed exemplary cooperation with american and australian armed forces in the run-up to the 2011 great east japan earthquake and earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . working alongside countries with which we share our common values and interests , will we be able to safeguard and cultivate an international public goods ranging from space and cyberspace to the skies and seas . as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and prosperous .
for all that israel has downplays its relevance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers a critically important agreement : the full normalization of relations by the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ? another big question for israel is whether it can embrace the consequences if the two-state solution disappears from the agenda . israel , as the founding father david ben-gurion has warned , could be the jewish state ; and it can be an occupying whole of historical israel ; but it can not be all three . how can israel of its preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible negotiations capacity if talks can not begin until , as israel continues to refuse , retreat on their minimum status to a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ?
but , even with favorable global market conditions , we failed to manage to address the poverty problem in which millions of russians still live . we russians riding along the way on oil and gas for the first time , forgetting that these resources do not last indefinitely . we need a democratic , competitive environment , initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and a genuine system of public scrutiny . nor has it been the crisis that gave birth to corruption that influences officialdom on all levels or caused russia to lose its democratic dynamic . i am convinced that russia ’s woes all come down into politics .
yet forcing greece out of the eurozone against its will – either : italy would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , with doubtless serious revaluation beyond a country ’s borders – is not an option . crucially , fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would be fatally undermined . in my judgment , there are only two viable options for this left . the first , and more desirable , is for the ecb to judge greece realistically , ’s solvency deficiency , and so stop providing ela funds to its banking system . but allowing greece to default and remain in the eurozone is not an option : this would signal that other eurozone countries can amass massive debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention to repaying .
for example , china imposes an idle-land tax on formerly public land when its proprietorships fail to initiate the system-wide development process in just a year . additional savings are feasible through export-oriented industrialization approaches , such as the use of components – such as walls and flooring gps – that build an offsite . this brings us to a second key lever to expand the affordable housing market : a more genuinely cohesive and efficient construction industry . by standardizing design elements like cap heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction companies can lower costs and raise productivity , as workers acquire experiences with repetitive tasks . as it stands , the housing-construction industry is highly fragmented , obstructed its ability to take advantage of economies of scale , and builders often rely largely on the same methods applied 50 years ago .
if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly demanded of the hpv vaccine . for many of these countries , hpv vaccines are not only an effective solution , one that prevents 1,500 child deaths per 100,000 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this makes sense : of the 266,000 women who die from cervical cancer each year from cervical cancer , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met just a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth stop of cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at a un conference in africa . this is one reason why cancer specialists , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met just a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth stop of the cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the un conference .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled networks of illicit relationships between private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . a small number of high-level politicians , and corporate owners and executives , were convicted and imprisoned . indeed , corruption scandals have already reached their highest level in brazilian society . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment . meanwhile , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy .
most countries rely far too little on command and control , and provide far too little incentives for their patient and providers to make efficient choices . that raises long-run well times but exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions . so , nevertheless , one can see whether health-care pressures ultimately will upend the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism , with a very large fraction of an economy reverting to a more socially socialist system . that way , i do not argue against health-care capitalism , but warnings that support becomes fragile , far more so than for , say , globalization nowadays . some societies might decide that it is better red than dead .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once famously described his sense that james clerk maxwell ’s equations , which depict fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ he ’s an independent , existence , and intelligentsia for his own reasons that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get more out than originally put in them . ” not long after that , albert einstein summoned niels bohr ’s nuclear model , “ the supreme form of musicality in a sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman , describing his discovery of new laws of physics by declaring , “ you can recognize truth by its beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiments are all but universal among modern physicists in some ways . wishful thinking might never have produced working iphones , pluto photographs or a atomic bomb .
in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization can be delayed because two contending groups are trapped in the war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is required , but expect the other group to bear the brunt of the costs . by delaying , they give information to a different group about their willingness to resist the pain . why , with its clearly formulated alternatives on the table , have the government chosen an predictably disastrous course of action at such high human cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance ; intention ; intention ; and strategic interactions with each other . let ’s start with the last one .
by shifting its monetary-policy regime to goal of 4 % annual inflation , or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth , america would set in motion rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . a world in which america has a proven record of honoring the trust required by it to play the role of the global economic hegemon is a far better world for the americas than one that is untrusted . here is where the fed comes in . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and safer world . rather than see the 30 % euro appreciation following the ecb ’s current monetary policies , german exporters would shout for steps to prevent america from achieving a path to competitive devaluation ; ” finally , they express moderate inflation in the north rather than the current grinding depression in the south .
and a team of 47 house republican senators wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next congress can not honor whatever the nuclear deal they reach with obama . but ensuring that america can maintain its leadership in the twenty-first century will require a different sort of engagement with the us itself . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in its continued need for multilateral engagement , and this is always more difficult than bilateral engagement . true , support for multilateral leadership requires not just clearer and bolder rules , but also an demonstrating willingness to shoulder the costs of these rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold the “ responsibility to protect ” ” civilians , or by taking concrete steps to reduce – and eventually eliminate – its nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will demonstrate one of obama ’s most significant foreign-policy legacies .
the destruction of venezuela must urgently be stopped if its viability as a state and society is to re-establish itself . that requires a new government of dubious legitimacy , chosen through a free and fair presidential election prior to this year , as dictated by the us constitution . torturing venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro must urgently be stopped if its viability as a state and as a society is to re-establish itself . to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down , because losing power will probably mean long prison terms in the united states for narcotics trafficking or in the hague for crimes against humanity . while they claim to be redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they reject international aid , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , to die ) of severe food shortages , pharmaceuticals , and medical supplies .
so far , china has largely taken a “ field of dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ build it and will come . ” indeed , for the last 30 years or so , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urbanization in the country ’s coastal provinces . and , now that china ’s leaders are working with considerable resources , china ’s urbanization has increasingly taken that strategy inland , transforming critical investments in physical and human capital into the foundations of physical and human capital . but the efficiency of such investments will depend , first and foremost , on the sequence and pace of their implementation , and on how skillfully align to each ality ’s distinct resources , needs , and aspirations . four interrelated issues need to be addressed .
his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , allowed his relations with china , south korea , and the united states to proceed simultaneously ; and , in the recent crisis , all of him earned a pause in mockery of loudspeaker broadcasts . if china truly is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost completely isolated internationally . will kim respond that isolation recklessly by continuing to antagonize the south or pragmatically by becoming more flexible ? that is not an easy question to ask , then , to answer . it should be obvious to kim by now that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country .
one thing that has changed since then is the rise of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some young people . just french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish immigrants , geert wilders – emphasized the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that developed in his home country . the statistics are perplexing and occasionally conflicted , but europe ’s european union ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million can grow by more than 100 million migrants by mid-century . the need to deal with that outcome in france and throughout europe has become more vital than ever , because rioting and criminality by young , underprivileged migrants match the rise of far-right political parties . europeans can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations , european countries have badly need more migrants .
this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . countries where english is not the lingua franca are particularly at a disadvantage in science not because of a lack of academic excellence , but because english-speaking journals present the shots . as a result , there are limits to the scope of research topics that many countries can undertake , as they struggle to retain scientific talent . non-englishnization journals simply do not command the same insights in science communities . as english-speaking empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on channels that determine whether and not a scholar will have successful careers , developing countries will need to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to space domestic researchers on a more competitive side .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us are already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address those concerns a head-on . he should be judged not of its past or with its links to the trump administration , but by how it will be delivered .
first , larry summers ’s secular stagnation hypothesis has been proposed by larry summers . its keynesian premise is that the equilibrium interest rate at which demand would equilibrium supply is currently lower than its effective interest rate . this seems paradoxical , given that interest rates are already close to zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the actual interest rate , that is , the gap between the market rate and the rate of inflation . indeed , there are basically two competing explanations .
for the world cup winner was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams loaded with star players out of european leagues , but egypt that fielded just four players ( out of 23 ) playing out in europe . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt was defeated in finland , featured just a single player from the domestic club and 20 from european clubs . few egyptian players would have been aware of europeans watching that game , but egypt was playing a far better job and well-deserved to win . for their part , african players have grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities in a decisive league period . but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that combine globalization ’s opportunities with strong domestic foundations . for their part , african players have grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during a decisive league period .
berlin – the world ’s task in addressing north korea ’s saber rattling is not done any easier when it confronts an impoverished and effectively war-ravaged country . on the contrary , it is under such circumstances that calm foresight is most necessary . the genius of the habsburg empire , general prince klemens von metternich , in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars , was that he did not push a defeated france into a corner . though metternich has sought to deter any potential french resurgence , he has restored france ’s prewar frontiers . on the other hand , as henry kissinger argued , victors in world war i could neither deter a defeat , nor provide an incentive to embrace the treaty of versailles .
america had a brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and robust one in 1981/1982 . but the economy did indeed grow in the interim only hardly ever to consider them distinct bouts of recessions . and , being detached from the transition from president jimmy carter to president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential that two separate recessions could be identified . on the whole , dating through the recession , it is a call to take stock of errors . looking back , many economists believe that it was one important episode , and that is probably the appropriate way to think about it in the larger historical context .
in the 1990s , for example , us sanctions regimes introduced an average rate of around seven per year . of the 67 cases in that decade , two-thirds were unilateral sanctions imposed by the united nations . during bill clinton ’s presidency it is estimated that roughly 40 % of the world ’s people , or 2.3 billion , have been subject to some form of american sanctions . indeed , a great majority of these sanctions apply against small countries . currently , the us has almost 8,000 sanctions in place worldwide , with iran by far its largest target .
his insight into international economics is either non-existent or ten years away . making matters worse , by announcing america ’s withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership – designed at least partly to shape global trade and investment flows under western rules , rather than china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is abandoning america ’s policy that might check china ’s surging leverage in asia . rather , trump is evidently antagonizing china for no good reason . in a similarly tweet justifying his phone call with tsai , tsai has repeated a false accusation that us companies are devaluing their currency in order to gain export advantages vis-à-vis america . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s value where it faces capital flight .
what we do know is that no alternative great power is willing and able to step in to assume what was america ’s role . india is preoccupied with challenging economic development and tying its problematic relationship with pakistan . although china is a frequently mentioned candidate , its leadership is mostly focused on consolidating domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest . likewise , russia is a narrow-minded economy , led by a government-led economy focused on retaining strength at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . china ’s interests in both regional and global institutions seem mostly designed to bolster its economy and geopolitical clout , rather than helping to set rules and establish broadly beneficial arrangements .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth decelerated steadily to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth since the second quarter of 2009 . having contained inflationary and property bubbles in early 2010 , the chinese government tightened monetary policy . as a result , annual inflation plunged in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices for which the national bureau of statistics regrettably stopped issuing official data seem stabilizing , and may even have fallen , albeit modestly . the newly liberated growth data may have dispelled fears about a hard landing for china , but it was n’t what prompted many to argue that china needs to stimulate its economy further , at the expense of 8 % annual gdp growth . to some extent , the slowdown in china ’s gdp growth reflects the government ’s achievements , in an effort to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as in other official policies aimed at economic rebalancing .
after all , iran and the us are already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate has asked its commentators to offer their best-laid guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddied by a misplaced argument for question , policymakers often go nowhere if it frame abortion , first and foremost , as a matter of health . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the status quo for many years to come . from a moral standpoint , there is a powerful case to be made for honoring the woman ’s individual freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than for forcing her to place her own health or wellbeing at risk , by carrying out an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy .
indeed , at least half of those living in urban slums are under age 20 . without access to education , that generation – which will most likely be majority – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . but for how long will a majority serve a minority ? every day , more people arrive in nairobi , enticing on the promise of work , resources , and a better life simply to realize that they are not equipped to survive there , and that their children will grow up in a slum . the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them off the global development agenda .
catastrophes lurking in distances are legion : asteroids and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and plagues ; nuclear and plagues ; nuclear and floods ; volcanic erupts , earthquakes and tsunamis ; human over-populations and habitat extinction ; rising and sea-surface extinction ; falling temperatures and a series of ice ages ; exhaustion ; starvation of clean air and water ; the disappearance of land and fish . all of these disasters , – and many more , remain envisioned – are possible , and large numbers of them are unacceptable . the problem is that the principle can not be adequately applied . the world in which we live is the tiny garden of well-examined territory that is surrounded by a dim and dark bretton woods of catastrophes . the precautionary principle prescribes action , whatever costs , to prevent all .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , economic policymaking has centered on unemployment . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . yet employment is just one welfare facet , and , in today ’s world , it is not nearly enough . following its targeted killings by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 world will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us are already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the sino-american rivalry , on the other hand , involves two economies that are closely integrated with both the us and the outside world . the cold war of the twentieth century pitted two competing military alliances .
from 1968 to 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the removal of all living on the march 55 islands that now comprise the british indian ocean territory ( biot ) and that were divided over mauritius in the period following its independence . this was done at the behest of the united states , which was embroiled in the vietnam war and demands , for understandable security reasons , in the use of isis of diego garcia as an air and naval base . the way in which citizens of this archipelago have been systematically dispossessed and throwing their land in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy for which the west can and should make restitution . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend for themselves . the british foreign office argued at a time that the chagos islands did not have a settled population .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed its second success in democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan assuming office after his party won a general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing to operate with both technocrats and opposition parties to tackle pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for an iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made available to systemically important financial institutions immediately – even as they are insolvent and in a resolution . but the challenge of establishing whether a troubled entity is viable is the best left to use after the restoration of financial order . unless and until governments come together to rescue intelligently designed counter-cyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on the long spell of classic , unadulterated cyclical downturns . owing partly to the dodd-frank act of 2010 , the fed can issue emergency barred funding for only five eligible institutions – something of a problem if only your top four banks go into trouble , and it must confirm that counterparty are financially viable before any financing can be made available . either way , counter-cyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during a cyclical period of downturns now looks destined to produce an involuntary holiday .
sovereign spreads are already pricing risk of a domino effect , from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . a default by greece , after all , could have the same global systemic impact as lehman brothers ’ collapse did in 2008 . the eu and the ecb worry about the moral hazard of any “ bail-out . ” fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing make their way more fragile and liable to fail without a war chest of liquidity to prevent italy ’s public debt , while appropriate policies materialize and gradually gain credibility . at the same time , unless greece is able to adjust its policies fully to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial eu bailout and the ecb will still be likely in order to head off contagion risk to the rest of the euro zone and the consequent threat of a monetary union ’s ’s ’s survival .
human-rights groups have long urged the need to expand the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to the country ’s tribal belt , where the religion-based parties have broad support . sharing a mountainous – and porous – borders with afghanistan , that region comprises many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . these religious parties , a grand coalition of which now heads provincial government in northern western frontier province has been politically marginalized until it was given a central role by pakistan ’s military dictator of the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who has led pakistan ’s covert intervention in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . throughout its rule , religion-based politics has grown alongside that of madrassahs , as well as fighters trained and endowed by pakistani and american intelligence agencies . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and subsequent us pressure from washington led to a u-turn in pakistan ’s pro-jihad policies .
mainstream politicians may still nod reverently when the global free market is invoked ; but in practice the world bears an reverting to an older , more durable model . so , too , has once more triumphed over ideology . with america losing its chief prop of neoliberal policies being pulled away . it is tacitly accepted that in the future , as in the past the world will contain a wide diversity of economic systems and regimes . throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition .
the first few years of his rule have been dominated by his struggle to gain control over the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , and used it as a cash cow ; many of his social programs were funded directly from the company ’s budget . upon reasserting political control in his campaign in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s employees . his hostility toward foreign players in industries ( he expropriated a few american oil firm ’ holdings in 2007 ) constrained investment , holding back production . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to cut back on its maintenance and expansion , which boosted the number of such accidents and constrained production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear facilities is another possibility . moreover , while a preemptive strike would postpone iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding and possibly creating the conditions that are causing trouble for the regime ’s domestic opponents . one downside of such a prospect is that iran will be likely to retaliate against american interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , as well as use of hamas and hezbollah , against israel and others . iran might also interfere with the oil spill over , leading to a price spike and delivering a further blow to american and global economic recovery . but , notwithstanding these potential drawbacks , the armed attack on iran ’s nuclear installations will , and should remain a distinct possibility , given the massive strategic cost of a nuclear-armed iran .
and with northern ireland ’s republican party headed by sinn fein demanding a vote to reunify with the south , the uk ’s very existence is now squarely on the agenda . two centuries on , outgoing premier david cameron , may be remembered for losing two union unions – with europe and between england and scotland . whereas the conservatives want scotland to be in a borderless britain , scottish nationalists want scotland in a europe without britain . there is one route to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce that it is negotiating with the eu on the basis of eea membership . lord north is reminded of his party that britain is about to lose the british union with america .
assad ’s goal of war has been reduced to avoid a decisive defeat and gains in international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . assad ’s final days , indeed , are unlikely to look pretty much enough . tight-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and many alawite minority members are fighting for their survival . a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s ’s geography does not fit well with an orderly division along sectarian lines . the rise of the islamic state has given way to government claims that syria ’s risks override those of terrorist groups ; but the regime is also increasingly isolated .
if the super-rich believe that they are no longer a part of society , and that has little need for government , this is not because that belief corresponds to objective reality . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our time-portrays markets as self-standing entities running on their own fuels . that is the narrative sweeping away all segments of society , the middle class no less than the wealthy . yet it is not that much of their self-interest , which stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion . there is simply no reason to expect the super-rich to behave less selfishly than any other group .
but , while it may explain why capital spending has been weak , and interest rates have been low for the past three years , it can not account for why capital spending has not been insufficient to keep rates on track for more than three decades . here , the only explanation still stands is a shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of output , like manufacturing , to less capital-intensive activities , like the services sector . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure ; more education and research to compensate for the shortfall in private capital spending ; and still higher capital requirements for bank loans , and stronger nonbank regulation to prevent them from excess risk-taking . when disorder has multiple causes , then multiple treatments should be expanded . finally , central banks should set higher inflation targets , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to future slowdowns .
across russia of the near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . the danger for the world is that putin ’s lawlessness is being exported . the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner — i chair the g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example — appears to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal . once again , exposure to western values has delivered yet another potemkin village ; russia presents the façade of laws and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface in an equally arbitrary brutes of rule . look at putin ’s attempts to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential election , and on once criminal charges leveled against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko .
throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people to receive only a sufficient degree in order to survive rather than participate in society . there are far too many entry barriers for the poor , innovative and those without access to credit . democratic latin american countries limps sideways , because they can not run greece . indeed , in latin america , too , many people live with surreptitious hands . across the region , politicians like writer octavio paz once referred to the “ philanthropic ogres ” ” ” to eu clients , people who expect rather than demand .
for starters , competitiveness has to do with the capacity to increase market share , without sacrificing margins or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity . this , however , is not what these indexes really measure . rather , indexes encompass variables , what they refer to as a kind of “ political space ” – that is , the point of causing either a country of competitiveness or an inclusive growth rate . the two examples are the wef ’s global competitiveness index , and its new , inclusive , inclusive , and development index . the inclusiveness of growth has to do with income disparities and growth across diverse regions and social groups .
whether one viewed the dutch welfare state as humane and generous , or bloated , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . since the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s , those writing about the netherlands have often lamented a “ dutch disease . ” there were as many generous subsidies , grants , and transfers that aim to everyone from the truly needy to artists unable to sell their work – that after-tax wages often have barely risen above the benefits . so , too , people rarely returned to jobs after losing or leaving a job , or did so in an underground economy with its unreported cash payments . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch responded to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to encourage a return to work in the formal labor market .
of course , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . yet major segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america falls into recession in the months ahead , trump is reelected . moreover , their prognosis rests not just on the fear of being wrong once again ; germany appears to have resigned itself to such an outcome ; and , with some may even hoping for it . at this point , a comparison with the 1930s has inevitably come to mind . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but in their view of trump ’s reelection , large portions of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s financial and industrial elites , when hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to alter the rules of the game , provide youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . in order to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , providing youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage next year by 16.4 % ; to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and about 55 % above its current level , by 2020 . market mechanisms alone are not adequate to make this happen . governments need to take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that gains are shared much more equally and sustainably .
israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their winmets in order to ensure that a think tank gunners could direct their fire on egyptians just ahead of them . still , egyptian artillery was superior , and they should at least be silenced in the trench rooms . egyptian defenses blocked central highways across sinai with a enriched box generating powerful artillery and more than 100 think tanks , fronted by the three parallel trench-lines manned by a thousand infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at every end . sharon did his troops climb over the sand dunes to enter into trench lines whenever they finish off and attack their length – the simple maneuver that egyptians can beat was not pinned by the kind of artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing straight at them directly . nonetheless , paratroopers , helicopter streaming , were abruptly jumped by the egyptian gun crews , which never had a chance in an hand-to-hand .
over the past three years , more than 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , thanks partly to demands that those in specific positions , such as the child-care workforce , have a first-aid certification . such certifications are even more critical in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . requiring that people in particular occupations – including high-ranking teachers , nurses , and police officers , who receive mental-health first-aid certification – would significantly enhance involvement , thereby bolstering support for those struggling to address mental-health problems . pilot work in rural india shows that mental-health first-aid approach can be adapted successfully to constrained communities ’ needs . in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional preaid courses .
the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying of aids , even as drugs exist to treat them raises deep-seated questions about global intellectual-property ( ip ) , because patent protections create a barrier against essential medicines that reach the world ’s poor . in response to this offer ( and bad to bad publicity ) , merck merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers shastol myers ’ district , three large patent-holding companies have announced their willingness to supply the african market at “ zero for-profit ” – ie , about $ 500 per patient per year for the aids drugs that they produce . but how can the benefits of a worldwide patent system , which provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries come in combination with the assurance that the poor are gaining access to the medical care they desperately need ? the costs of these drugs are far less borne by the market prices , but are probably as low as $ 350 – $ 500 a year for some three-drug combinations used to treat aids . moreover , some quality generic drug producers , such as india ’s cipla , have offered to provide these drugs at prices far near to those of production costs .
this reading is reinforced by macron ’s own experience . what he appears to have restructured french politics in this process . having never held an elected office , macron has crafted a new single-centered party , with the support of both center-left and center-right voters . but what if populist movements ’ continued electoral gains are helping to drive forward a wider political restructuring that ultimately bolsters european democracy ? next year ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , a cover of time magazine ’s “ person of the year ” featured salome salome featured salome , a nursing assistant who not only survived an ebola epidemic in her home liberia that year , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . karwah was the hero who met the tragic end . she died one year ago from complications in birth day , a killer that each month takes twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic did . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended up dead with mother deaths . childbirth was a dangerous fixture on women and newborns across human history .
an estimated two million syrians currently live in turkey , while more than one million live in jordan . most live outside of the refugee camps and a large number of working-age people – for the most part illegally . unemployment in turkey and jordan is at around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally vigilant about programs that could cost their country jobs . to be sure , refugee labor poses delicate political challenges for syria ’s neighbors . at the same time , the rest of the region wants to emulate them .
yet the language used by those wars of america ’s neo-conservative promoters came straight out of the kennedy era : the dissemination of democracy , the causes of liberty , and the provision of universal authority of “ american values . ” the problem with obama on america is rooted in the contradictory character of his state leadership . the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan , and iraq was doubtless complex . now , with american policymakers talking about “ freedom , ” people are seeing bombing campaigns , torture chambers , and the lingering threat of lethal drones . one reason america elected obama in 2008 was that america ’s rhetoric of american idealism led once more to the deaths and displacement of millions more .
this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise . in the past , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and such exercises can not be explained as a simple , one-off ” ” affairs with little resonance . but that ’s because bush did not begin to address an issue that is looming ever larger in the region : the changing security face in asia , given that china ’s growing economic and military might is . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news – by design . this was followed by russian news reporting that both china , russia , and india would conduct a trilateral military exercise – known as the “ indira 2005 , ” ” ” ” ” ” on an equal scale before this year .
proven systems and reforms should be pooled between emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and mindsets should be adapted to local conditions . this includes new , affordable technologies , such as low-cost cell telephony for use by community-health workforce . emerging-market governments need to address the critical issues that arise from weak top-down coordination within , and among both national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs . they should consider the reforms that involve giving cities governments the authority , resources , and responsibilities needed to address health and health-care outcomes . next , anticipatory municipal planning , based on realistic demographic projections , patient registers , and health-information systems , together with urban health-health-health-knowledge participation networks , urgently needs implementation .
is this a change in china ’s media strategy or simply a short-term shift in tactics ? that question stands out , given chinese public opinion in the latter phases of tibet ’s crisis . much for the consternation of the western media , chinese people around the world lashed out against their supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan revolt . shanghai – the tightly controlled media control of tibet ’s unrest , following what , to some , looks like the far more open coverage in the devastating indian earthquake in sichuan province . throngs of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets , protesting the prejudice that they perceived as in western media reporting .
our gatherer ancestors , meanwhile , ate carbohydrates ( the glucose ’s polymers ) , also transported the liver through a glucose pathway and broken down to energy . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to releases the insulin that transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue and that was also driving the liver to store glucose as a glucose ( liver starch ) . as a result , our forebears livers stayed healthy . and nature did its part by supplying all but one of the naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as the energy source , rather than both . as a result , our forebears ’ cased livers stayed sound .
sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to nearly 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . across africa , the disease is projected to have cut average national growth rates by 2-4 percentage points per year . there is widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already won the battle against hiv/aids . in reality , crises have only just become less visible . there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and an estimated 34 million people living with hiv/aids , who require the treatment they need to stay alive .
leaving in the single market comes at a cost , one that british voters may not muster in support . the uk would need to accept the sort of satellite state that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting , and implement decisions that they take no part in shaping . if that democratic deficit is to be unacceptable to the uk , it will be left alone , not in the economic cold . even the american people have stated that they would be reluctant to negotiate distinct free-trade deals with the eu . leaving the single market would create grave uncertainties for the british economy , particularly its financial sector .
as the curtain drops , two developments will profoundly influence both the withdrawal process and its ultimate outcome . the first is managing the afghan control transition , which depends on an orderly withdrawal from both american and nato forces by 2014 . the second consists of the election , also hosted in 2014 , of a new afghan president – a process that needs the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that they are passing the territory over for legitimate sovereign rule . for afghanistan , a war ravaged without respite since the “ saur revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will be even nerve-wracking . as america ’s military leaves , it enters into another period of political and strategic insecurity , after almost a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – observing the sophisticated , democratic societies knowingly walk into a predictable , avoidable national catastrophe is a rare , alarming experiences . most british policymakers are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on a post-brexit relationship will inflict tremendous damage on their countries . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
after all , such changes are at best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or by means of military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as is the case in iraq , but through socioeconomic improvements and diplomatic engagement by outside powers . in reality , while america has not tried harder to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its longstanding – and already much-reduced – support for the castro administration . normalization of relations with america is the key to the liberalization of cuba . this is no longer an option , either . indeed , the predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening might prove accurate only in the short term .
it is well known that weidmann does not like it , when central banks , particularly the european central bank , purchase sovereign bonds . but , claiming that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry risks of “ much stronger politicizing the exchange rate ” – initiating genuine currency wars in a process – is actually slim . though countries have not quite descended into protectionism since the onset of the global financial crisis , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in core countries may have pushed policymakers to protect domestic markets while attempting to regain external competitiveness . in recent years , a lot of political activity , both directly or indirectly , has tended to focus on exchange rates , in ways that imply new economic and political divisions . but , while vigilance is on the ground , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars in a process – is slim .
moreover , while studies suggest that short-term , directly measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small ; and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants may be important to specific sectors of the economic economy . the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . moreover , while studies indicate that short-term , directly measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants may be important to particular economic sectors . today the us is the third most populous country in the world ; 50 years away from now , it is still a third ( after only china and india ) . not only is immigration relevant to economic power ; rather , as almost all developed countries age and face the burden of provision for older generations , it could help to reduce the sharpness of the policy problem .
in fact , only two of the six key economic tasks identified by the work conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . calls to strengthen social safety are in keeping with the third plenum ’s third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned companies ’ profits to fund safety-net programs , such as pensions and health care . likewise , emphasizing markets that are critical to upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift to a consumer society . but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of timeworn “ soup sink ” approaches to chinese economic policymaking – concrete proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely tied to internal inconsistencies . a new approach is needed and will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy falls headlong into a severe slump ; bernanke ’s surprise cuts speak volumes about that . he defies economic rationale to think that the globalized economy – including in europe – will escape its consequences . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices in world markets , all of which are relevant factors behind the currently elevated european rate of inflation . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let the economic slowdown do work for him . as european growth slows , so does inflationary pressures .
all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy quickly went into line politically , enabling putin to use ukraine ’s vast oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest european friend ( though greek premier alexis tsipras seems intent on changing this ) , while poland ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia could once again become a front and closer to the continent . eu countries that he could not coerce militarily because of nato have wooed by rebates – or punished with price hikes . as a result , whereas hungary pays gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 , the eu ’s highest price . the poles took a steep price , but they were right .
the seed treaty achieves this by developing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . but , while accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown little factual bases . instead , the world has been creating a baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically emphasizes scientific research , plant breeding , and creating intellectual property . indeed , biopiracy is rare , so rare to be dealt with directly . the seed treaty has also brought under control by its parties , and the secretariat the 15 research institutions that comprise the consultative group of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential partnership of global research .
with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , it seems unlikely that a disgraced , unpopular president will abandon his effort to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . indeed , he has long promoted mashai as his successor ; but khamenei has curbed his illicit effort – and rolled back mashai ’s candidacy entirely . he has also cut off funding for riddling certain religious institutions , helped by those in his circle to establish private banks through liberalization of regulation , and has challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the president has waned considerably , with even a state-run media refers to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media are now publicly criticizing its economic and political agenda .
as the economist marco fortis points out , italian familial wealth is still , if not for long second to none in europe . the tax plan stressed that italy , like japan , was a country of both public and private wealth . in order to enhance its credibility on public finances , monti ’s government substantially raised taxes , especially on the real economy , while preserving the already meager income-tax rate . under monti ’s leadership , the reforms were finally initiated , and the markets were calmed . beyond their international credibility , two significant shifts to italy ’s political landscape have shaped the electoral campaign .
the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than when they see it reddening the faces , with their rage or humiliations , of those in power . but some line need to be drawn when good government becomes possible , just as a privacy zone in our personal and family life is crucial to sustaining the relationships that matter most to us . one of the toughest lessons for senior government officials to learn , ­ ­ – including me when i was an australian attorney general and foreign minister – is the futility , in every but a tiny minority of cases , to try to prosecute , and punish , those responsible for leaks . prosecution typically boosts leakers ’ stature , making it redundant to serve as a deterrent . it does not undo the former damage ; it typically compounds it with further publicity .
she wants to break out before voters realized that the leave campaign was sold by a false bill of goods , including a promise that she can maintain all welfare gains , particularly full access to europe ’s single market , without allowing free movement of labour . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight on “ defeats , ” while hardly anyone “ picking winners . ” clearly , there can not be a form of brexit , or a post-brexit britain , to please the two groups . furthermore , though may has been in the “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will be effectively responsible for any default in the brexit negotiations . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as soon as possible .
among other things , such surveys should aim to develop a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as the use of alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behavior , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . in fact , more studies are needed to inform health policies , and to planning adequately . according to the global burden of disease study , medical risk factors explain at least 50 % of early death and disability among adults in men like 50 and above ; for young people , that figure drops to just 26 % . a data-collection effort should include the focus on mental health as well . in order to complement that effort , we also need to invest in improving our understanding of how these risk factors – most often studied when connections between early childhood and adulthood – affect adolescents ’ health .
“ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan and a place going to be military , ” he declared . but talk of regime change may have spurred musharraf to re-enter his politics . pakistan these days is a troubled country politically as well as economically . only an elected politician with the backing of key constituencies may hope to restore its political order and economic health , and musharraf presenting himself as the possible candidate to endorse the military . thus , in a protracted conversation with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan may be the only institution able to save the country from its current woes .
with politicians effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , the western democracies seem to have fought to ensure stable , long-term growth in a manner that , say , an authoritarian china does not . there are at least two ways in which this problem can be tackled in a democratic context . first , governments could be bound more firmly to act on their predecessors ’ policy choices . that way , the kind of forward-thinking legislation that has been debated and enacted will , in fact , have time to take effect , without the risk that it will simply be eradicated by a successive administration . the european union provides one illustration of how long-binding commitments can work .
at the wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement demanding that the education can be positioned prominently on the agenda of any politician running for an election , at all levels , at government levels . incheon ’s declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public spending on education costs . for the sdgs to work , education must receive a higher level of bilaterally , well , locally , and globally . this starts with political will , and a setting of priorities . moreover , the ongoing shortfall in aid to education must be reversed , with new financial sources – like emerging-economy donors , private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – being mobilized .
ukraine ’s current refinance rate is at 16 % per year , at 10 % below the inflation rate , implying that ukraine has negative real interest rates at 10 % per year . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , has exploded to no less than the 52 % figure for the past year , which points to inflation hitting 30 % soon . the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation ; but its insistence on the dollar ’s peg ties their hands causes it to prevent them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to strict reserve requirements , effectively credit rationing , and thereby triggering a domestic credit squeeze amid the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some medium-size banks into insolvency , owing to liquidity problems . of course , rationing is always worse than the market ; it is also a bad thing .
developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a role . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this route to failure will be closed down . the initial concerns iranian domestic politics , and its ongoing power struggle within the regime , and its struggle , which scuttled a once previously diplomatic solutions , for neither the conservatives nor the reformers were prepared to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic iran debacle , which would then face a united front of the arab states backed by turkey , the us , and , in a sense , israel . iran would then find it difficult to maintain its foothold in lebanon ; indeed , its place would become more complicated in iraq , despite its shia majority .
the eu ’s approach to sharing power , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict through multiple committees may be frustrating and lacks drama ; but it is all the more relevant to many issues within a networked and interdependent world . its lack of vision , divisions , and an obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and a sclerotic economy contrasts with the united states ’ more dominant even than rome ’s … ; what is the problem is not europe – is our outdated understanding of power . as mark leonard , managing director of the european council on foreign relations , puts it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s ’s hour has come and gone . ” the american political scientists andrew moravcsik makes the similar argument that europe ’s peoples , frittered and collectively , are the only states other than the us that are “ devoting global influence across the full spectrum from the ‘ hard ’ to soft power . ” as insofar as the term retains any meaning , the world is bipolar and will most likely remain so over the foreseeable future .
tehran – iranians will go to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is not clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has said repeatedly in public settings that he will refrain from declaring his preference among the candidates . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there were some rumors that i supported a particular candidate for the presidential election . ” but i have one vote , and i would not determine a certain candidate , because the people themselves should elect their candidates , based on their own knowledge .
likewise , a move to a territorial tax system will raise taxable profits , particularly in the short run , as companies repatriate some existing overseas money stocks . but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , with lower tax rates on personal income boosting taxable incomes as individuals increase earnings , and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will return to surplus . although net tax changes may widen fiscal deficits in the short run , the incentives effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will imply faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both generating rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . with only a very small majority in the senate , where a filibuster rule requires the three-fifths majority that is passed on to pass most legislation , giving democrats the capacity to block a republican tax agenda .
combining them has brought its asylum system close to implosion ; separating them would help to ensure that those in fear can receive a fair hearing in which their rights are safeguarded . for its part , the eu needs to revitalize its operational-smuggling operations in the mediterranean . addressing the eu ’s genuine economic and social needs requires delivering efficient blue – or green-card policies to economic migrants with an overall immigration destination . and policymakers must not wait until after the next migration crisis is lifted . second , europe needs to deal separately with economic migrants and asylum-seekers .
in both cases , efforts to defend a fixed exchange rate in confronting capital-flow reversals were a major factor , as was true in turkey during the year preceding its currency collapse in june 2001 . to what extent are today ’s ’s conditions comparable to that which triggered the asian crises of 1997 , or other abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring more emerging-market trouble to this year ? emerging-market bulls note that most major middle-income countries have substantially lowered their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal room they had lacked in the past . but neither the mexican national free trade crisis of 1994 , nor the asian crisis of 1997 , has resulted in large public deficits .
at the same time , many in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours a week . such a reform could be undertaken more than a few decades without slowing economic growth or reducing prosperity . at the same time , younger people long for their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours a week . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies enable older people to work more more years , enabling everyone to work fewer hours . one possibility is moving toward , say , an average workweek of less than 25 hours , and average workweek , which extends as much as 70 % to age 70 and still higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise .
british public opinion is so hostile nowadays , the eu in general , and europe above all else , that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . it is this commitment , by which the government of the eu is bound to remain . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the eu , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try . denmark ’s government has done just that , and appears to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . as a result , “ spin out of ” britain is simply impossible .
whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb oil imports in the long term , such actions will require major transportation infrastructure changes that will require decades to complete . more important , companies like general electric are committed to green goals , which go well beyond government regulation . a recent report by the bipartisan national energy policy commission exemplifies a new coalition . the center for the multiplicity of scenarios contemplated by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times their pre-industrial levels in 2100 . whereas the bush administration remains skeptical of science behind such projections , several state and local governments object to actions aimed at cutting co2 emissions .
nearly everybody makes everything at the top in a business world . achieving this type of education will most likely entail pursuing what one naturally finds interesting and engaging , whether that is finance or physiology . at the same time , they should be investing in acquiring communication skills that are similarly critical to successful careers . in such fields , people ultimately buy and sell corporate managers in the same way that people do business in their technological fields . an important point for those in question is that they should motivate themselves to follow a deep understanding , rather than rote memorization , of subjects that study so that they fulfill the role of true expert in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue .
but this day is also about spreading the message in the name of elizabeth and other women like her own : abortion , while in many countries a issue of political wedge , is simply a reality for life . every year , 25 % of all pregnancies – some 56 million – are stopped . abortion cases occur in every country , and within every socioeconomic class . but the truth is that abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services is often limited . in the united states , a record 61 % of all abortion patients are in their twenties ; 59 % are already mothers ; and nearly two-thirds identify with organized religion .
a second argument is that if the ecb were to stands firm , workers would not seek higher nominal wages , knowing that this would lead only to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . this argument is not irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a hard ecb stance . the ecb should not delude itself to think that a small rise in interest rates will suffice . should and when wage pressure materialize , the ecb , to stay true to its word , may be forced to raise interest rates far more than it is now expecting .
megaupload enabled its 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , tv shows and music , and some of the money sourced by dotcom ( from advertisements and subscriptions ) was on display at its mansion near auckland , where it kept his rolls-royce and other exotic automobiles . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that the megaupload was simply providing storage for its subscribers , and it has no control over what they store . last month , the united states considered legislation to stop internet piracy . bills were written at the urging of hollywood studios and their publishing and recording industries to claim that violations of online copyright use cost the american 100,000 jobs . but megaupload offered cash rewards to users who had uploaded sales files that proved popular with other users .
moscow : as the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begin on a number of days , viewers will be presented with an minutely choreographed spectacle in nationalist kitsch . of course , images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping troopers are the final thing that china ’s ’s leaders have in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims their country to be the “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of a “ harmonious development . ” yet , both aesthetically and politically , that parallels are hardly far-fetched . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , hitler ’s son of the favorite architect and designer of the 1936 ’s berlin olympics to design a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics that laid a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like those regimes , from being fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to transform national space and sporting events into visible demonstration of their fitness and reaching govern .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger since . but it has also rendered the subject less relevant , and has diminished its legitimacy and credibility . to recover its credibility , economics must become more open to criticism of assumptions , methods , and outcomes . economists are no longer perceived by much of the public to be asking the right questions , or to try to answer them with integrity . the inconvenient truths that dissenting voices have voiced can not be ignored indefinitely .
europeans are in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . the united states is reckoning with a psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and republican majorities . china , on the other hand , is a dynamic and outward-looking energy sector , providing a good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on crucial initiatives ( like sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . in short , this is a critical moment for germany and europe to provide vision , stability and global leadership .
many of the artists involved in establishing the sight , including the fireworks specialist cai guo qiang , the dance star shen wei , and the composer tan dun earned their glory mostly in the west . equally significant have been china ’s projection as the nascent leader of a new international cultural order . in keeping with china ’s recent efforts to project its “ soft ” counterpart , the opening ceremony has produced the idea of a historic but dynamic culture at its best . a “ bird ’s nest ” stadium has been the creation of a multinational design team of herzog & de meuron with suggestions from the visual artist ai weiwei . other than the presence of a few people ’s liberation army soldiers , you would be hard pressed to find any visible evidence of a reigning communist regime or of its co-founder , mao zedong .
my research , which included thousand interviews with women from india to burkina faso , has centered on just one question : how can the international community improve welfare for the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they are already doing on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but – particularly in the developing world – is through the promotion of financial autonomy . in many fields , this means nurturing “ informal savings groups , ” a ” ” ” networks of like-minded women who pay dues to build shared pools of resources . that money can then be drawn to fund any number of items , such as small business spending , school fees , or medical costs .
president putin 's behavior at the summit made it clear what he thinks of the europeans ; not too much of it . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint pervades all around the world , especially on the other side of the atlantic . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not decisions made by any putative global government , but the fact that the g8 's days now seem numbered . politically and economically , russia and india are more important today than some of the members of the g8 . thus , the summit 's ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s outcome was a far cry from each other .
in most areas , epas will actually do harm intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . given this , the epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some of the short-run losses . while the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the trade gains brought by the epas , as negotiated , tend to be concentrated on a small number of agricultural products , together with the exclusion of least-developed countries . some argue that the problem is more about the timing , because the losses are likely to materialize immediately , and the potential gains brought by increased eu access will take a long time to emerge . in fact , african leaders are right to be concerned .
for americans , there was “ a heroic or victorious account , ” in which atomic bombs represent the ultimate blow against an aggressive , fanatic and savage enemy . the selection , and a combination of the data , is a good thing ; it is a necessary one . john dower , the american historian and specialized of modern japan , has studied the issue in the long term . for example , in 1995 the smithsonian institution in washington , dc , sought to take fresh view of the enola gay , a plane that had dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima . he showed how history can be presented and appreciated in totally different ways : from the american or japanese point to it , even though no one is fabricating facts or uncovering sources .
it will push the real issues down the road , rather than an end to the brexit debate . it would have to greece on the october 17 meeting of the european council , where european leaders are growing increasingly frustrated with the process as a whole . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the telecoms service team that spearheaded the previous negotiations . any new deal will be able to ’s old deal with few bells and whistles . that show , after all , that is years to go .
poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán in particular , have busily constructing illiberal states within the eu . likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s war crimes against his own people has left the void filled by putin and iran . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood was not enough , it was also enabled by right-wing populist and nationalist movements that took away within the european union itself . those movements , actively fomented by russia , spawned homegrown political leaders who frighteningly , but not astonishingly – resemble putin and erdoğan . all too often , european leaders shout off the sidelines when they are supposed to be on the ground , acting to defend shared european interests .
in order to deliver opportunities and security to everybody , everywhere in an era of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . a common framework must also be crafted , so that such programs can be scaled up and put in place in various contexts . as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of their benefit systems . for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would enable schemes that operate across borders at a time when workers are increasingly required to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would retain value as they moved with those who earned them .
moreover , even without a timely fix , brazil will default on the crisis in a far different way for mexico . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers have found themselves in the awe of wall street ; brazil does not have so hanging out . ultimately , brazilian policymakers worry about their own right , rather than the prosperity on which foreign investors are exposed . on the surface and beneath the surface , brazil has made a dramatic spin : inflation is plummeting to negligible levels . should and happen on both sides of the divide , brazilian policymakers shed few tears at the expense of international investors .
but do n’t despair : there is still time to save our climate . by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be locked into forest and soils . the power of markets to drive radical changes in energy and land use is great , but , as the 2017 storm season should remind us , the climate emergency that we face requires vigorous , urgent action now . transforming how people acquire and consume energy and use land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for their success . but , while techniques already exist , success will require increased use of singular till farming , adopting permaculture principles , better management of wetlands , and exploiting rotational grazing techniques , among others .
but after former us president barack obama attempted to repair the american health-care catastrophe with halfway measures , arguably the most that has been politically feasible at the time , those vying for the democratic nomination have clearly had more ambitious plans . many of the democratic candidates have called for major expansion of the government-sponsored medicare program . warren , meanwhile , has proposed introducing universal childcare , to be funded by a wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million . but their proposals - a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , a national health-care service , or something else - do not all imply the same things . a few contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – do not fully agree on the details of such a program or have simply failed to dislodge them .
but there is another explanation , one that fits fully with rationality and self-interest . in the economists ’ language , centrist politicians confront a problem of asymmetric information . they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe that leaders who seem to be different from an earlier mob of politicians oversold them on the gains from globalization and pooh-hed their grievances ? when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is only natural for voters to discount the promises that they make . rather , voters are attracted to candidates with anti-establishment credentials , and can be expected to diverge safely from prevailing policies .
today , the leaders of rwanda , widely viewed as an african success story , have enhanced stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . the landslide reelection of president paul kagame last year had more to do with power than with democracy . despite kagame remains popular , its government was criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . a conclusion i draw is not that human rights do not matter ; rather , political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable as long as the tradeoff is sustained progress on economic and institutional governance . politically , rwanda is powerful , disciplined , organized , and not liberal .
when it comes to priorities , it arguably has more to do with the g-20 ’s governments to bolster core systems , which allow for global flows than it acts strictly on economic issues . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest to do this : no one benefit from expanding systemic risk . taken together , the web site of cross-border flows of goods , information , humans , and capital that are its lifeblood depends on its threshold level of safety , stability , and predictability . it is this threshold that now seems to be being under threat , and that it appears . continued economic progress in the developing world , and healing the advanced countries , requires preventing local and regional conflict from spilling over into large systemic shocks .
washington , dc – attendees at occupy wall street movement are right in arguing that large banks have never been properly investigated for shoddy , aggregation , and securitization practices , central to the financial crisis , and lost more than eight million jobs . but , with efforts by new york ’s attorney general eric schneiderman and others to address the serious debate began at the united nations about out-end of a court mortgage-settlement among state attorney general generals and prominent financial-sector firms . talks among state bureaucracies , the obama administration , and the us banks currently focus on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . yet leading banks are also blamed for illicit behavior , inducements on people to borrow by , for example , deceiving them about the interest rate that would actually pay , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities at investors . if these charges are true , bank executives involved can fear that civil lawsuits will uncover evidence that can be applied in prosecutions .
“ over rivers and down highways and along with myriad jungle pathways , eastern pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage into india : endless unorganized flows of tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothing piled on their heads , transporting their sick children and old ways . they are silent , except for a child whimpering now and time , but their face-telling tell the story . others have cholera ; and , when they die by a roadside , there can be no one to bury them . they pad along barefooted , with a mud sucking up in their wet heels . many are ill and covered with crossores .
accusations of currency manipulation and the threat of protectionist measures have intensified . now the global spotlight is turn to france and its looming presidential election . a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the ultimate pillar of a crumbling global order . with the united kingdom lending world free trade having now chosen to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are placing national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that drove european integration and sustaining it at the heart of the postwar multilateral system .
new york – when i was bright-eyed eighth grader in my native sri lanka , i could not wait for my first gender education class . in our early birth , my classmates , and i was just as curious as we were clueless about their sex and sexuality . yet , rather than receiving dependable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , correlations , and sexuality , we have simply been handed a book , telling us to read a specific chapter , leaving things out on our own . and yet , instead of receiving robust answers to pressing questions about our bodies , correlations , and sexuality , we have simply been passing a book , telling us to read a specific chapter and have left to figure that things out on our own . millions of young people worldwide have a similar experience , often with severe adverse consequences . following its targeted killing by iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in the 2020 ’s will weigh on the present for many years to come . “ if revolution is there , let us commit rather than undergo it , ” ” ” otto von bismarck once said . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . whatever the case for facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , has already provided a wake-up call for us firms and policymakers worldwide .
four decades after nixon ’s shock , ” ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , an impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . china ’s presence is feeling around the world , from mine mine in africa to apple ’s shops in the united states . it is the world ’s largest volume exporter , run by china , and runs the world ’s second-largest economy . as we reflect china ’s remarkable progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to consider how china continues its way short of overcoming the systemic impediments to long-term success .
us president donald trump ’s trade-war faltering confidence ; this is merely a downward correction for an economy that was already slowing as it makes the shift away from exports – and investment-led growth to a more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . how much the chinese economy will grow slowly is an open question ; but , given an intrinsic contradiction between an ever-more de-industrializing party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could fall quite dramatically . unfortunately , avoiding a shift to a consumer-led growth – and continuing to underpin exports and real-estate investment – is of little attraction , either . a significant chinese slowdown may already have been unfolding , and a significant chinese slowdown is likely to persist . already , china is the dominant global exporter , and there is neither market space nor political tolerance to let it maintain its earlier pace of export-led expansion .
a second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underlines the relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its underturns of democracy . a well-educated citizenry is also essential if young men and women are to acquire the skills they need to fulfill the employment sort today ’s global and competitive world demands . the arab world faces severe problems that can be met only by more flexible , socially democratic political systems . a democracy requires an ill-conceived citizenry able to question its government . alas , instead of progress , what we are seeing is a cycle of insufficient educational opportunity , leading to a lack of economic opportunity .
with the kurds , the majority of whom civilians killed turkish bombs , the un security council remained typically silent , whereas europeans condemned all and all involved . as the foreign-policy disaster recedes , this has been one of the record books . yet the seeds for this greater conflagration have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan calling . in an open , absent any coherent policy , the conditions have been ripe for a crisis . the us president has threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if it has done what it has allowed it to work .
and such an approach would cement the notion that a central bank policy is “ the only game in town , ” relieving elected governments ’ leaders of their responsibility for stimulating pro-growth policies and those of the fiscal choices that they control . but an <UNK> ter-money program of fanciful thought , when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 , would also produce a radical departure for policymakers , demanding an abundance of prudence on citizen and investor perceptions , trust , and solid governance structure . from a macroeconomic perspective , investing in infrastructure is a “ twofer ” – one that strengthens productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and where unbounded capacity is , boosts demand , output , and employment with major short-run multiplier effects . a less risky , time-tested route to stimulating demand would be a massive boost in public-infrastructure investment financed through debt-financed spending . it is well documented that europe and the united states have underinvested in infrastructure .
and if all were n’t bad enough , india ’s leadership does n’t seem to recognize the challenges that railways present . with the government losing $ 4.5 trillion every year by subsidizing travelers ’ fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improve safety standards , or triage trains . in a country where rail passengers can not even expect a clean toilet , much less on-age version of the stage , prime minister narendra modi has been talking about putting bullet trains up , most recently in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . over the past 30 years , a mere 317 of the 676 projects sanctioned parliament have ended , making it easy to imagine how railways would acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the remaining 359 projects needed to complete the remaining 359 projects . as a result , the railways are running out of money before running out of their plans .
cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . a number of organizations have now emerged to strengthen city governments ’ policy-making capacity , including michael bloomberg ’s government-supported innovation program , fuse corps , track results for america , social finance , a third-sector capital investment strategy , and usafary . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart region-level progressive federalism . under federalism , whether as a cooperative or “ uncooperative , ” it is often assumed that state and local governments pursue the same goals . in fact , a deep divide between the left-leaning “ blue ” cities and right-leaning “ red ” states is emerging .
for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the us and the united states , not to mention his native australia – for the sake of profit and political influence . we need to look beyond these figures to identify who actually is liable to identify who is liable to be responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant deceit and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of national discourse . murdoch ’s newspapers and television networks might just as well have patented the deceitful , dog-whistle politics that drove trump ’s rise and brexit vote . only by identifying the sources of a odious virus that now afflict our democracies can we take practical steps toward quarantine . let ’s start with “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch .