the middle east moving the pivot another aspect . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can diminish that region ’s importance . than instability is the key question , the central pillar of decades to come . world energy may be export energy . will be the middle east . unlike east asia , the middle east defies analytical consensus in the complexity of which , turmoil . remains a region . . do the region ’s crises stem from the lack of peace with israel ?
a effect of snowball is supported by this deterrence logic . with russia and the us holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any of the other nuclear-armed states to reduce their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the big two make further drastic cuts to theirs . china shares russia ’s concerns about us conventional and missile-defense superiority , and is increasing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with china taking that course , india – outside the npt but with 100 weapons of its own – feels the need to add to its own arsenal . determined to try to keep ahead of india becomes even better . , pakistan .
two centuries later that was no longer the case : by the end of the nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution had spread were , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence . to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy , despite a substantial proportion of national income the loss is the early industrial-era economic accomplishments . they occurred despite a tripling of the population , which put extraordinary malthusian pressure on the economy underlying natural resource base , and despite the mobilization of an unprecedented proportion of national income for nearly a century of intensive war against france , a power with three times britain ’s population . did occur with these accomplishments , how exactly ? were the small differences to matter so much , that turned . , what ?
the referendum ’s outcome has had little effect on the wider global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to be managed , not the existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers imagine . may is in no hurry to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though , facing re-election next year , the increasingly desperate french president françois hollande says that he is ) . may , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of a political strategy . her government has created a department of international trade , which will be responsible for drawing up trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission had previously handled such arrangements ) . handle political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations will be the so-called brexit ministry , another department of new .
with the help of the china development bank , which does not impose the kind of conditionality that imf bashers dislike , i finance myself . has tried . , venezuela . instead , the cdb lends on secret terms , for uses that are undisclosed and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas like telecommunications ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , cars ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness do anything . have not required . is the chinese . they merely as collateral , ask more oil . . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is a disgrace .
all about the low-rent cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign , one television advertisement said . it featured two clips of obama saying , “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law , ” and , “ what i did was reach out to senator dick lugar . ” the context was not explained , but what obama said in full was this : “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that will secure and destroy some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded weapons , ” and , “ what i did was reach out to senator dick lugar , a republican , to help lock down loose nuclear weapons . ” with the defeat of lugar , and the simultaneous exit of the last republican moderates , like senator olympia snowe of maine , who were prepared to put national interests ahead of partisanship , the senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties , should they be negotiated . moreover , which would replace a fragile international moratorium , the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty can not without us senate ratification into force .
his betrayal generates little resentment , but perhaps he will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists . to forget about treason , secure states apply . insecure states betrayal acts are better . . betrayal was always feared by with the legitimacy of fragile , the soviets . they married this high moral language to minor transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally , they the motherland betrayal called their crime izmena rodine . .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs , which have similarly been forced on people – and even used to torture prisoners . and , whereas few people now get ect involuntarily , and in all cases consent is sought , a large and growing number get antipsychotic drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , patients with alzheimer ’s , and a host of others whose lives are shortened by treatment , with no effort undertaken to seek their consent . although ect ’s opponents believe that it causes brain damage , this is difficult to prove . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressants , and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic effect . but anti@@ psychotic drugs another syndromes of tardive dyskinesia regularly do while ect rarely , if ever , causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage and has not been shown to do so in animal studies .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore recently failed to finalize a deal on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have another chance to complete what would be the world ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . but no celebration cause will to consider important human-rights implications , fail . the united states , canada , and with a combined annual output of around $ 26 trillion , ten other pacific rim countries or about 40 % of global gdp are involved in the talks of tpp . their economic clout is matched by their ambitions ; the talks go beyond traditional trade issues , which account for only five of the 29 proposed chapters , and consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues that will affect many millions of people – and not always positively . is a complex question , whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable .
free access is just the beginning is the thing of exciting about open education . return in a constant state of creation , use , reuse , and improvement to the current textbook production pipeline promises is open education . open education promises to provide children with learning materials tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ off the rack ” materials , together with quicker feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and improvement . collaborative learning that leverage social interaction among students and teachers promises new approaches . and open education . late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to reach a consensus on open education ’s ideals and approaches , and we committed ourselves to them in the cape town open education declaration , which was officially released on january 22 .
the boundaries for us engagement are , what ? under what conditions would the us use its capabilities ? nearly 70 years ago , when george orwell examined the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and writing are largely the defense of the indefensible . ” realities obscure un@@ sav@@ ory is necessary . in other words . massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” and ethnic cleansing is a “ transfer of population . ”
brussels – to many people in the west , china seems to have gone from a country that “ keeps a cool head and maintains a low profile , ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . his finger is not google keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and putting the executive of australian mining behind bars for ten years . . it reassuring to recall been stubbornly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pillorying western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism is to now , that china . , nor . but the point in reciting this litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it is to demonstrate the dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ normal ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of millions of people that it still needs to pull out of poverty . to be dragged into fierce competition with the west or its neighbors seems the dilemma aware . is the chinese leadership .
if this continues , europe will lose its influence in world affairs and gradually become irrelevant . fortunately , the experience of the 1980s way suggests forward . was than it is today , less dangerous . in the situation of international yet we succeeded in ameliorating it – not just normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . this was achieved primarily through dialogue .
these factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms that have a reduced need for labor . and once them to pursue anti-competitive measures that prevent actual and potential rivals from challenging their position , it means their chosen market dominate , these firms are established . . and , as the economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen show , the us industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . this increased market concentration is widening the gap between the firms that own the robots ( capital ) and the workers whom the robots are replacing ( labor ) . but we 'll the digital age reinvent anti@@ trust , confronting it .
and whom we all this european progress thank have , i do . ? do we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s political leaders , particular that of the “ merkozy ” odd couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? despite mali@@ g@@ ned financial markets the pressure , progress seemed exclusively . : unfortunately not . just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was the markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to european fiscal and political union . that no cause is for party . .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the us dollar , the resulting impact on the us manufacturing industry could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand and thus hurting the word ’s exporters . forecasts for us economic growth have been revised downward significantly since the federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . the problem we face illustrate global nature . is therefore equity markets depressed and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 . debt accumulated before 2008 the overhang depressed is still demand . it has simply been shifted between sectors and countries ; indeed , this pre-2008 debt has not gone away .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken a transatlantic alliance that had long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” he predicted , with countries following the kingdom of united succession out , the eu will soon collapse . the united states , his position suggests , would be more than fine with that . the world shameless reversals shocking declarations and is becoming used . with trump .
with greatly reduced output going mainly to the ex-soviet market , he did barely . is those that survived . russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for the mining and hydrocarbon sectors . the potential for as china , africa , and india , enormous demand growth in large markets benefit will be all of these industries . but achieving long-term growth led by high-tech industries requires that investment including openness to foreign players encourages private sector . , a environment of business . moreover , must be conducive to a high-tech labor force , providing an attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and supporting entrepreneurship and creativity , the environment of and political social .
of course , the situation dried is not cut . which vary from country to country , the presence or absence of complementary reforms . is affected . is the return to public investment . there expenditures being as investments misclassified is some potential for abuse . , and . yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which means there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints for investment . more private-sector investment spur would probably the kind of right of public investment .
women are not play these programs of television central issue . drives the story of not gender , character outside of the united states , women have already the highest level of power reached . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , won three general elections having , is respected or resented not for her gender for her austerity policies . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is attacked for mismanaging the economy , and by us banking interests for forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman .
bernanke has emphasized that these two policies are on separate tracks and will respond to different indicators of the economy ’s performance . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising the fed governors and the presidents of the regional federal reserve banks , has agreed that the federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % and can be expected to remain there or decline even further . the fed may not be ready to raise federal rate 's funds until 2015 with unemployment , falling only slowly now at 7.6 % . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous – and therefore uninformative . might increase the federal funds rate if the anticipated annual inflation rate rises from its current level of a bit less than 2 % to more than 2.5 % warns that . is the fed .
and , with housing , healthcare , and education less accessible now than at the end of the 1980 ’s , his political program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital – the key problem holding back russia ’s economy . in russia that in the us , which is why the economy struggles even when the price of oil , its main export , is peaking 6-10 % is , according to prokhorov . russia recently emigrated educated professionals for two million . during the last 20 years , social inequality has grown threefold . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that afflicts many oil-exporting countries .
it is important that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) let iran know that any action to put itself in a position to field nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by the accord , will not be tolerated . this , too , is not precluded by the accord ; should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakout is harsh sanctions . . if it to be attempting to present the world with a fait accompli , undertake a preventive military strike . would be informed the us . should also be iran . in allowing north korea to pass the nuclear-weapons threshold , the world erred . ; it should not make the same mistake again . in the meantime , a major effort must be launched to assuage the concerns of iran ’s neighbors , several of which will be tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s potential breakout in 15 years by pursuing nuclear programs of their own .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge a currency ’s underlying strength . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – particularly as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling . in the context of the coming years , rather than just the next few weeks , trump ’s election will almost certainly be bad for the greenback . for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election only because trump has promised to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . this will boost near-term economic growth and inevitably rates push interest .
but this happy outlook will remain unchanged for the march 29 brexit deadline depends on one crucial assumption : , for may . european leaders could easily neutralize may ’s threat of a no-deal brexit and therefore eliminate any need to offer the concessions she demands . to do this , they must understand the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and delay . may used procrastination as a winning strategy throughout her political career she often refusing to express her views or even to until minutes before a final decision had to be made , see at meetings . won battle against other ministers . as home secretary .
it to excessive government regulations , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability , institutional quality makes 5@@ 31 . , and . finally , compared to an oecd average of 90 % , to just 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , productivity in the sector of services . most acute in finance , and government services community , business services is the problem . externally , south korea korean nuclear threat escalating north is very vulnerable . . fired several ballistic missiles and spurring an exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un conducted a nuclear test . north korea , and we 're in recent months .
it is not sustainable for the people of smolensk oblast to live under constitutional democracy , while the citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the victims of wanton shelling and destruction . can not be denied to colonial subjects of members or certain groups as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society shows . is the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in the us , . at risk , his democracy will be a line of imperialist continues . second who oppose liberal democracy is reactionary forces , continued imperialism in the near-abroad and in chechnya . second , continued imperialism in the near-abroad and in chechnya strengthens reactionary forces who oppose liberal democracy . devoted to extend russian influence in the non-russian republics is the political and military elements the soviet state feed the demise on the resources which la@@ ment .
from the japanese perspective , there was an `` account of victimization , '' in which `` atomic bombs have become the symbol of a specific type of suffering -- rather similar to the holocaust for the jews . '' the victim role has been ways that similarly distort memory exploited at the hiroshima museum itself . the inhumane treatment , but continuing the war for the japanese government 's responsibility neither that fits him best chooses the point of view . , everyone . whether we identify with the heroes or the victims , with the pilots of the plane that put an end to wwii or with the passive population subjected to the hell of atomic annihilation , we are always rooting with the `` innocents '' and the `` good guys . ''
as rights-holders , the beneficiaries of intended of these measures should be defined . if for their failure to take action , the governments responsible . , accountability mechanisms should be established . it is empowering for victims , this removes the stigma of charity . they are granted remedies because their rights are being violated , instead of being helped because they unsatisfied needs have . the framework also should include a non-discrimination requirement , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups – not just the well-connected , the literate , and the favorites of the regime , and not just groups for which quick wins can be achieved .
the most important problem that needs to be resolved is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese are stealing us firms ’ technology and using it to help chinese companies compete with those same firms in china and around the world . do this in two ways in the chinese share their technology with that firm to have a chinese partner are required . , us firms that want to do business in china . that trade organization world explicitly forbidden technology compulsory sharing .
this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . it unleash more violence as against christians , jews , and others , against muslims threatening , and they is moving around the world , . but the battle within islam is not we see in a place like south sudan , whose 11 million people gained independence just over three years ago a explanation of or satisfactory . the referendum of independence received 2011 % support while between christians and muslims , the world 's newest country emerged from a bitter war . . however , nothing to do with islam and everything to do with a struggle along ethnic lines for control of the country 's resources has been made for the citizens of 1.5 million .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , started out as a program whereby the department of the treasury purchased problematic , largely mortgage-based assets directly from financial institutions . but the government banks instead recapitalized us , and that turned out to be more complicated than originally thought . reversed bad decisions of other offered a guarantee of blanket for all banking deposits hoping to prevent a bank run . ireland destabilized the rest of europe with this unilateral decision .
at the source , and illegal content of other kinds hate speech must be attacked . there 's to be taught , from a young age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech , who need . , consumers 's need for increased media literacy . on one hand . on the other hand – and this is what the netzdg attempts to ensure – social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that encourage responsible use . this quick fix is , but it 's that facilitate and even reward hate speech , a rethink of fundamental of business models on the contrary .
one specific to brexit , and we can ask two questions of other independently of what we think about britain leaving the eu . . first , the citizens of be able to make decisions directly , in a referendum for a democracy , rather than through their elected representatives should to what ? british legislators the june 23 referendum outcome consider them , and would it ? on the general question , direct democracy for the argument of strongest is that it follows from the idea of democracy itself , subject only to a feasibility constraint . but in larger countries , was slow when communication , it to elect representatives to decide the many questions that needed to be discussed and voted upon was necessary . ; in earlier times , small city-states could be direct democracies .
view a request for a defective engine would the same backdoors regard a request . . recently sent to president barack obama arguing against backdoors to a letter was a coalition of large of technology companies and civil-society organizations . in addition to “ undermining every american ’s cyber security and the nation ’s economic security , ” the signers argued , “ introducing new vulnerabilities to weaken encrypted products in the us would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe . ” what supporters of encryption recognize is that “ if american companies maintain the ability to unlock their customers ’ data and devices on request , governments other than the united states will demand the same access , and will also be emboldened to demand the same capability from their native companies . ” his policies given , the us government will not be able to object .
kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , led by prime minister mahathir mohamad , suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal , following the online circulation of a sex video involving a cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice resulting in the imprisonment of people ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , like these preceding , the latest drama , risks obscuring essential problems more . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader . would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift .
he will pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament election has also confirmed . , macron . he must go hand in hand with the development of a truly european political space deepening of the european union believes . as a democrat . at a time of much hand-wringing over the decline of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . in fact , macron has taken a leap into the unknown of the west ’s “ new politics , ” a terrain no longer defined entirely by competition between large center-right and center-left parties . but is politics the traditional right-left cleavage the page really turning ?
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is a continued combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer , however , have recognized that the least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china take responsibility for its dangerous neighbor – is a chinese invasion , or regime change forced through china ’s threat to launch one . this outcome , which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not as unlikely as most people think . how it needs to be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners is one reason . is very plausibility . in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ”
spiekermann , a global authority on the trafficking of our online identities for purposes of targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum started to discuss personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , ” she told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the idea that personal data might be the ‘ new oil ’ of the digital economy as well as – so it seems – of politics . ” as a result , “ more than a thousand companies are now involved in a digital information value chain that harvests data from any online activity and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users within roughly 36 seconds of their entry into the digital realm . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple or amazon that harvest and use our data for any purpose one might think of , ” spiekermann says . “‘ data management platforms ’ such as those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles about hundreds of millions of users . ”
it with the inputs of a selection of more diverse , the poor access to a wider variety of commodities . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and reduce agricultural prices – outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers increased foreign competition face in india in example . the mobility of inter-sectoral labour given constraints , obstacles to skills acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations stemming , the poorest workers have few options when such changes occur . as a result , increased trade may the term of short demand difficult changes . .
kenyans need similar means of reflection today . and yet , just when the country ’s democratic institutions could most benefit from such a mirror , those who have historically held it up now believe they have no alternative but to put it down . for kenya , the nation of the very public decline has a cost of high come . and how they want that press freedom means much more than letting journalists say what they want , when they want . , but it has also confirmed . it also holding media owners means responsible .
the recession of 2001 an investment downturn combined with a downturn of inventory . may last considerably longer , the second result of overinvestment in high technology and telecommunications , the sectors that were so important in the boom of the late 90s -- ; is over the first . having yet to any light pass see through them , that remain dark . , there remains a considerable capacity overhang . invest more in these sectors is lead firms . , and interest rates only lowering . that much of the equipment may become obsolete well before it is worn out , or even used , enabling new investment to start faster than it otherwise would , of technological change in these sectors pace is sufficiently fast . is the good news -- and the bad -- .
may will formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article of lisbon treaty established by early next year is broad parameters for the negotiations once the bureaucracy . . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . after will have had to come up with a package , three bre@@ x@@ ite@@ ers a sack rats fighting one another . the next election will not be a stamp of second of approval for bre@@ x@@ it providing by then . the formal plan is , least .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . as their western counterparts , their cause was not the same . , but were protesting , students . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chant “ ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with the viet cong , but rather to defend their own country ’s freedom and culture against a smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho ’s name , young poles put flowers under the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , written in praise of the struggle for freedom , had recently been declared subversive and anti-soviet , and its performance at the national theater in warsaw closed down . these that springtime of rebellion of forty years ago east european students the differences between west are only a few . .
are comparable and advanced countries available data across a large set of middle - and low-income countries is the figures . preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies will illuminate political debates – and likely annoy ideologues of both the right and the left . with the fact that world income inequality is not rising argues in recent paper . , lustig . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality , which runs from a value of zero for perfect equality to 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all the income ) . the average gini score ( not weighted by population ) in countries for which there are data declined slightly in the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 .
choke off inflows of foreign direct investment export competitiveness erode may also be increased while policies that encourage firms to increase wages will raise household income and domestic consumption . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to increase average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is crucial to china ’s long-term prosperity . realism is puzzle for china the piece of final . the chinese government to maintain decent growth of about 7 % annually while pushing for rebalancing and reform is keen . as it stands . that the authorities may rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation and structural vulnerabilities until reform measures is the risk .
and he can that no one who has stood up to him has won , send a message . by shutting down such a prominent us-supported institution . have used the tactics of same , de@@ spots throughout history . but orbán is doing so in the eu of 2017 . it hungary to meet stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law in order to join the eu , i remembering . is worth . . the eu paradox has introduced . is now being systematically eroded .
soros : a institution of functioning is the ecb . . germany in a position to veto it is not . , so long as it acts within its powers . this i something really significant might of the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors , i come out . am promising . , i is . . the last step in a general philosophical crisis in the west may be the current economic crisis . , you do n't think . , question ? soros : i discussed this in 2000 , in my book on the crisis of global capitalism .
moreover , it although capital gains a tax of flat will hinder social mobility or increase poverty , she is not . . in fact , since sweden adopted the same system tax in 1991 , its average annual rate of productivity growth has increased by a factor of four . since 1991 , any change of major has not experienced the france of social mobility . france more genuine equality and benefit more social mobility stands by moving away from a system of universal eligibility at the university level to one that finds a more appropriate fit for all students after high school . macron ’s revolution is on the move .
in addition to individual businesses , entire value chains that contribute heavily to the country ’s gdp have suffered a sudden operational and financial freeze . but while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth remembering what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . reforming the relationship between brazil ’s public and private sectors can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . the ongoing prosecutions have already changed the calculus for any economic agent who is thinking about violating the public ’s trust for private gain . there that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being caught and punished , regardless of their social status is now widespread perception . .
it seems the way lost the citizens of europe . as the union races . are turning their backs on the whole project is many . they what is common to europe seeing have trouble . . they do not the whole of great feel part . the family of european of democracies enthusiasm is the new member states .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( probably about lifting sanctions that president barack obama had imposed on russian businesses ) . moreover , the president ’s son , donald trump , jr. , along with other top campaign officials , met in trump tower with a russian intelligence agent with ties to the kremlin who had promised “ dirt ” on clinton . it had been widely expected that trump ’s son would face indictment as well – even donald , jr. , had said so – but barr ’s announcement ruled out further prosecutions . another prominent escapee from the special counsel ’s hammer was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house role , especially in foreign policy ( in which he ’d had no experience ) , to attend to his family ’s need for funds to pay off a huge real-estate debt . handed federal and state prosecutors outside washington off , or initiated by . , trump himself is still vulnerable investigations . .
dealings and violence backroom continue to rule the day . can not manage democracy , arabs , i claim . , pundits . in fact , the us and its allies simply do n’t like the results of arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when the ballots go in that direction , the us simply ignores the election results ( as it did , for example , in 2006 , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . the us can not violence in the middle east stop . .
cambridge : after a wasted decade , the world is rousing itself against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , especially in africa and south-asia . 13 million orphans 19 million lives claimed . is the pandemic . virtually all are marked for early death ; live with the hiv virus that causes aids for 34 million people more . 25 million people suffer from it in africa ; the asia of 6 million more : while first identified in the us in the early 1980s , aids concentrated in poor countries is now . . in parts of southern africa twenty % more of adults are afflicted .
in most cases , the laws for skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . except those near landmasses , which are managed in a similar manner to the country 's land-bound borders to everyone , oceans . usually traffic terms conceptualized , as a result . airliners and fighter planes operate in “ controlled ” air close to the ground , while nationality is supposed to matter less the higher you go . enforced mostly by the fact that few nations can afford to place assets that high is fragile treaties that cover this .
a bigger threat to global stability pose , few other trends . almost all societies have become heavily dependent on the internet , the world ’s most important piece of infrastructure – and also the infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of everything . ” it is the beginning of the digital age , and the end of the industrial age altogether ; and our current era is not the industrial revolution fourth . malign actors in other , cyber criminals is already being introduced by the digital age .
to discriminating in favor of soes and against economic sectors with a high degree of private ownership , including agriculture , force the government . will also be wto membership . china 's industrialization strategy in the pre-reform era rejected the notion of " comparative advantage " - the principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others owing to factors such as natural resources , geography , and climate . because investing in industries such as citrus fruit and tourism provides far more certain profits , produce frozen salmon . does n't . is jamaica , say , . underlies steel and textiles the decline in advanced countries such as the us is the same wto-induced sectoral adjustment . so@@ es survived because regardless of cost , economic au@@ tar@@ ky emphasized . of central plan@@ ners in china .
there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation , and high debt . yet before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit – as opposed to its underlying debt position – was often rather restrained compared to the rest of the eurozone , as well as the other members of the g7 ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . did not that the country needs , deliver the nominal gdp growth . , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year . an unconventional coalition whose program the populist right left the populist . combines policies . elected elected elected elected as a result . while the league party promises to cut taxes , the five star movement ( m5s ) is pursuing a form of basic income .
work does n't , liberalizing everything encouraging foreign investment and then waiting for things to improve . weed , investment in non-traditional areas accomplish two tasks . must be an effective strategy . governments must extend the carrot and the stick both for this . learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing is a key challenge of economic development . great social value in discovering , for example , that cut flowers , or soccer balls , or computer software can be produced at low cost , because this knowledge can orient the investments of other entrepreneurs is needed . is the carrot .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the effect of the cyclical rebound – an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real gdp – would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , which would be significantly higher than the 1.9 % rate in the decade ending in 2009 . but will remain in the us , not all of the extra output produced over the next decade . if the trade deficit is reduced by 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied rise in exports and decline in imports would reduce output available for us consumption and investment by about 0.3 % per year . could be equally important is the dollar over the coming decade a decline the effect . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of that dollar decline is reflected in import prices , the increased cost of imports would reduce the growth of us real incomes by about 0.4 % a year .
the holdouts claimed that , if the new bonds were being serviced in full ( as they were ) , equal treatment required that the holdouts should receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) . the us second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its obligations to the holdout bondholders in the same proportion ( namely 100 % ) as the holders of the exchange bonds . it was that ruling that recently upheld the court of supreme . under the court order , argentina may not pay the holders of the new bonds unless it also pays the holdouts , and no us financial institution can serve as an intermediary to make payments for argentina . pay in full or default on new bonds for the holdouts must either as a result .
china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to build a sprawling complex roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo – a “ port city " that will become a major stop on china 's nautical “ road . " zhou bo , an honorary fellow with the pla academy of military science , admits that china 's mega-projects “ will fundamentally change the political and economic landscape of the indian ocean , " while presenting china as a “ strong yet benign " power . this developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china 's rise , than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india 's longstanding dominance be determined . will is important . . the behavior of china is pretty suspicious . , india . is treading it can continue to advance its goals , without spooking its intended quarry carefully enough , but china .
yet sharif was an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . the modi government has also adopted the upa-proposed goods and services tax , which had been stalled by opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s gujarat ) . which modi previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism , the anti-terrorism effort national will strengthen and . to decry the series of policy abdications modi has conducted since his campaign began many supporters of modi in the media . indian citizens who thought that they voted for change are beginning to wonder if the bjp has simply reprised the upa government ’s policies .
undone international conventions agreed over several generations has now . in the middle east degradation of human dignity , and human rights are among first victims in all conflicts . we should been lost what , look the process of helsinki to show us . . with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military affairs , combined with a stability charter , has become urgent . created on a three-pronged strategy that includes energy and water policy , arms control , and debt reduction to help priorities must be a regional agenda . europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been great .
they ensure that during the crisis with the knowledge that after the crisis , momentum for reform would dissipate , no reforms of meaningful occurred . did what they could . . they than they knew , she were better . . that bill clinton would be followed by a us president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestations , after all , who ? for example , when the imf correctly suggested , after argentina ’s crisis , that there needed to be a better way of restructuring debt ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , the us vetoed the initiative . the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too bank secrecy restrict proposed a agreement . .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park , to mark the 28th anniversary of china violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . hong kong was on chinese soil permitted june 4 , 1989 , the only large-scale public commemoration as the south china morning post noted . and , to the attendees , the hong kong demonstration reflected growing frustration , not only with china ’s leaders , but also with their own . since the united kingdom returned hong kong to china 20 years ago has changed . on the surface . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s management .
what plays well with one group may not sit well with another . a group faces is the situation effective diagnosis . must also be sustainable , and a successful vision . get before proposing answers for the right of question must be leaders . they need not only to solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices to articulate them in a vision and choose goals . . they must to assess reality accurately be enough . .
sixth , sanctions are said to the targeted governments weaken . but economic sanctions take the sector of private toll primarily by worsening the business and investment climate . power as governments the shortages they cause control supplies . , becomes more centralized . if anything . finally , in containing nuclear proliferation are very effective . , sanctions . is demonstrably poor , their record .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , though a very interesting reference point for analysts of the arab revolutions , is not an appropriate reference point , because the region ’s new domestic and foreign order resulted from the change in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , nearly all of these countries had a very clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted the west , and was logical for nato and the union of european their accession . nothing of the sort the east of middle crisis belt applies . no power anywhere , within the region or without , is willing and able to implement the barest vision of a new regional order – or even a vision for parts of it .
new haven – by now , it ’s an all-too-familiar drill . after monetary accommodation of extraordinary an extended period , the us federal reserve back to normalization has begun the long march . . it has now taken the first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate – to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint to the us economy . a majority of financial market participants applaud this strategy . it the dangerous mistake is in fact .
major financial institutions provided the subsidies of implicit are not measured in any budget for central banks . moreover , the build-up of risk in the financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a few years ( for example , after a governor ’s term of office has expired ) . de gregorio ’s views differ from those of many of his colleagues in other countries , because he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become bigger and apply what he calls “ clever ” strategies that require a great deal of leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least for fiscal balances when implicit guarantees must be honored . vulnerability is reduced by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of debt .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny of what russian president vladimir putin is up to in syria and why . much of the analysis , though , has been narrowly focused on the short term and may be too negative in assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences . what we know is that putin has decided to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russian bombs and missiles are now raining down on an array of armed groups that have been fighting syrian government forces , which has given the regime the breathing space that russia ’s intervention was intended to provide . as bad as the assad government is , and as much as it has to answer for , this outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse .
this may part of the rules-based global trade framework be interpreted . using data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( the log value of which is on the vertical axis of the graph below ) tends to decline as the income level of the exporter increases ( shown by the log value on the horizontal axis ) . each blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy , and the solid black line shows the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . there are fewer anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it as a country becomes richer : the data pattern is fairly clear . this could be because richer countries observe rules better , are less likely to attract some combination of the two or as rise their labour costs , complaints .
most bets are on britain formally leaving the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate the final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft ” exit , but it will probably be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . its harsh economic consequences pragmatism over ideology triumph will be postponed : , but the referendum decision to leave the eu will be honored . if the brexit trajectory turns out this way , it will be a good illustration of the double character – and function – of politics . john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ words ought to be a little wild , for they are the assault of thoughts upon the unthinking , ” he wrote in 1933 .
a former royal castle in the rolling hills of the taunus region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians held an annual meeting dealing with the middle east was more tranquil : could not be the atmosphere . europeans and americans , and ir@@ anians israelis , egyptians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . this year was from the kurdish regional government , as well as a high ranking shi'a representative of representatives from post-saddam iraq , among them an official , the novelty . the attention center were , the new situation in iraq , along with the middle east road map . on the opening night , a senior german government minister , himself deeply involved in middle eastern affairs , concerns and israeli displaying great sensitivity addressed both subjects . .
despite coverage by local media outlets a lack of almost-complete , friday was paralyzed . and ramadan – now underway – is mobilization-friendly . there 's a program of common after sunset . observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including a short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyyam ( another late-night prayer ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers . the last ten days of ramadan are i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open areas .
as africa ’s leading development-finance institution , the african development bank will support our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthening social safety nets , and laying the basis for a strong economic recovery . we will seek to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas , we infrastructure and projects other finance in the region . . think tanks labour , and we 're collaborating more closely as well as with academic institutions with national and regional civil-society groups and the media , and we are broadening our consultations with governments and other actors . . we have partners with whom we can engage on governance issues with the emerging democratic dispensation . without pulling along the population of all segments and without giving a voice to all , economic growth aspire full . is no country or region .
seemed to be joining in , posting strong growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investments from abroad , and increasing fiscal revenues at long last is the best countries of even many . they the newfound prosperity of the shaky foundations divert attention , although the numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seemed to think . the growing need for measures to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a winning formula ? ” on the responses to the unfolding financial turmoil , the world the rest the fate depends . will undoubtedly dampen us household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral is stock markets and contraction .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . but they could become a fact of painful of life again as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and by 2050 its population is expected to grow to five billion – an increase of 900 million people . owing to its expanding middle class , the region will likely account for half of the global increase in annual beef and poultry consumption and over three quarters of the rise in fish consumption between now and 2030 . and by then , the developing world total cereal demand 60 % more will come from south and east asia .
what the us needs is to explain better to its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east ’s mounting problems . this say that the us should necessarily engage with every problem is n't . . but , whether america is engaged or not , it a policy does need . a point case is syria . the situation there , every pundit predicted him . , become a full-blown regional civil war threatens has metastasized .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . everyone , from households to businesses to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most valuable commodity : data . is how that can be achieved is the question . should not underestimated the challenge the scale cyber@@ -@@ attacks with greater sophistication than ever a faster pace are happening . with attackers becoming increasingly nimble and innovative , armed with an increasingly diverse array of weapons .
this the only way is not forward . . it is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in troubled countries with the help of a generation of emigrants who first transfer resources and then return themselves , but immigrants integration makes sense . these truths of home about immigration , not least a more rational debate follow is many consequences . viewed from the perspective such truths provide , for example , the european union 's eastward enlargement despite the old because it can lead to migration from the new member states but , it is not desirable . . as the wealth of already prosperous regions is sustained , more portugals and irelands can be created .
the cost is tiny : reaching 80 % of the world ’s 140 million or so undernourished children would require a commitment of around $ 60 million annually , while the economic gains would eventually clear $ 1 billion a year . top investment is , providing iron and iodized salt . per year , as little as $ 0.12 per person . is fortifying products with iron costs . we know that and mental problems cognitive leads , iron deficiency . we could get iodized salt and 80 % of those in the worst-affected areas fortified basic food items . , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that sum for $ 286 million .
compared to 6 % growth in the us , nine % growth in value added and productivity in this period is the european telecoms of standardization and liberalization . capital-intensive sectors has a major presence as regulator in which is is the largest scope for renewed private investment . even if european countries were to close only 10 % of the variation in capital stock per worker at the subsector level , the impact could be more than € 360 billion in additional investment – offsetting the € 354 billion difference in private investment between 2007 and 2011 . many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , which implies that weak demand in the short term will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action from policymakers .
as a result , the differential between growth in the emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging group – has declined considerably . fell to 2.5 last year and amount this year to just 1.5 is expected . is therefore possible after averaging three percentage points for two decades and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 . whether as low at it is today , growth will remain differential . is , the question . those who believe that it will , typically all require some qualification , of which , three arguments rely . first , they much convergence has already in manufacturing , i taken place . , i argue . .
has created governments and market participants perverse incentives introduced a high degree of moral hazard in practice under the latest eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume a risk should be liable for it has been replaced by a principle of joint liability , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale in the event of a crisis . those advocating risk sharing should serve as a warning to all . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . these corporations and banks part contains high level of public and private debt , weak institutions , overregulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections . .
the hoped-for break with the past did not occur , as political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked the implementation of any serious reform agenda . viktor yanukovych , his favored presidential candidate to k@@ yi@@ v vote bring , but she was also a bitter failure for russian president . one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten , the kremlin a bitter blow was the failure . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failure brought yanukovych to power in a free and fair election , and in 2012 putin selected himself for a third presidential term in russia . was a key part of his platform is the eurasia union new creation .
seven years of capital drought came the asia crisis east following . occurred in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis is the inflows of the cycle of third . if history repeats itself , it is now time for a third “ sudden stop ” of capital flows to emerging markets . are a couple of data points and a biblical parable enough to a cycle of 15-year the hypothesis take seriously ? perhaps if we international capital flows explain such periodi@@ city . , we have the causal theory of some sort .
jefferson and madison did not want the country ’s capital to be in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to support moving it to an area carved out of virginia or maryland . they , in turn , would secure the votes for the federal government to assume and repay the states ’ defaulted debts . from that grand compromise , a responsible fiscal state emerged . despite the enormous cost – more than half of the fledgling government ’s expenditures in early years went to debt service – the economy shook off the 1780 ’s depression and entered a growth boom . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than ours is today .
with each other , digital id could play the individuals of way a much more expansive role . significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and government institutions could create digital id systems succeed in the high adoption driving . digital ids have the potential to reduce fraud rates , cut customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and credit for under-banked customers , as we a new report document . they can also enabling digital talent matching and streamlined employee verification , resulting in higher participation in the labor market spur development . in interconnected online ecosystems , control and digital footprints data . could also establish digital ids .
it will disintegrate into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence if the revolution continues apace . but if the revolution is aborted , its leaders will be unmasked as empty windbags . created a provisional government that , headed by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , turned out to be a transitional blip toppled czar nicholas is of 1917 , the first revolution . . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order to continue to deceive the workers and peasants . but the second revolution – which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power – produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal .
there is the opportunity to create a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of the office of the comptroller of the currency , the office of thrift supervision , and the regulatory functions of the regional feds below it . i recognize that at this point i have begun to trample on cherished features of the us constitution , but one would add in the state banking regulators in a perfect world . ! to speak openly about the development of the financial system as a whole , without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in its care , let the free fed . would be this regulatory architecture . we need this plain speaking has demonstrated . is the crisis . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial independence in its monetary-policy role .
there small mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed when wal-mart enters the market in the next few months is fear . in india . but policymakers must recognize that there without stifling competition , protect little retailers . are ways . . displaced workers may or provide find specialized niches in the market help small retailers . . to introduce or uphold business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent rich is used as an excuse . should not be artisanal retailers the survival . asian policymakers must remember how they successfully developed their manufacturing sector – through competition .
toulouse – if history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its punishing with a sadistic twist – it also punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . financial crisis the weaknesses of founded on the lessons is regulatory systems . learned from previous crises have reflected . , time and again . today ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will the next one be . the post-war system of financial regulation was founded on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . first , we thought that panic , not that the main reason depositors panic is that banks are in danger of failing , how banks fail is the reason of main . is that . .
for china , the biggest prize is a bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . in practical terms , a us-china bit would make it easier for chinese entities to invest and operate in the us and increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets . such a deal would be a near-term boon for xi , because it would represent a vote of confidence by the us in china ’s struggling economy . but there are a bit prospects . the american community 's business needs convincing as well , and the us congress is deeply skeptical .
this is especially interesting since it fundamentally rejects one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s movie an inconvenient truth . how a 20-foot rise in the sea level would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland , in graphic detail . the ipcc report makes it clear that exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in science – though clearly they frightened people and perhaps will win gore an academy award . that global warming could make the gulf stream shut down , turning europe into a new siberia , you gore scenario : is the probability of another . was also revealed by the report . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario – also vividly depicted in the hollywood movie the day after tomorrow – is considered “ very unlikely . ”
it can reduce the bilateral trade surplus against any particular partner , even if its overall surplus rises , china , i note . is important . . and even if the import expo expands , rather than reduces , the country ’s overall trade surplus , it may well have other benefits . for starters , lowering the cost of imports will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power and their access to products that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will benefit from lower costs for foreign-made parts and equipment , which will boost their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers can end up boosting exports . finally , the international import expo will complement china ’s other measures to liberalize its market , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms .
across the west , many people are questioning whether russia will continue using natural gas as a means of putting economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” using the “ energy weapon , ” however , is not just a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet countries is based on the doctrine of a “ liberal empire , ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control of key economic entities across the territories of the former soviet republics by acquiring their assets . in this context , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that the empire of the “ new russian dream ” should be built by purely economic means , excluding all forcible action against other nations . naturally , this model key role is gave the countries of post-soviet to the supply of energy .
cambridge – the united states congress is close to enacting a major tax reform . the plan ’s most important provision reduces the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the highest among all oecd countries to one of the lowest – and allows us companies to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries without paying additional us taxes . to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , which will add $ 1.5 trillion to the government debt over the next ten years , the opponents of legislation . i the effects of dangerous have long warned . , and i i dislike budget deficits . nonetheless , i resulting from the corporate changes to the benefits of economic will outweigh the adverse effects of the increased debt , i believe . .
we need a group of the major economies – call it “ g major ” – that announces monetary policies in a coordinated fashion . to the case of japan consider , see why . . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to promote some inflation and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the last six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity , prompting the bank of japan to act again . they end up fueling a surrogate , low-grade currency war , but usually for boosting domestic demand , i justified as policies . is these actions . .
is consistent and substantial , with the disparities clearly above the threshold for statistical significance is under presidents and democratic , the difference in economic performance . the dividend of democratic in recent study confirm is princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson . their starting point is the observation that in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth has averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to 2.5 % under republicans . the disparity is even worse if d. roosevelt franklin , and one goes back further , to include herbert hoover . . the results are similar even if one assigns responsibility for the first three months – or the first few quarters – of a president ’s term to his predecessor .
terms in office have expired for the prosecutor-general , members of the national election commission , and supreme court justices , but no successors have been named , because maduro is unwilling to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials of his choosing . do the democratic means are denied them to be the ones who decide their own destiny better . indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , has been arrested on ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” it would have been preposterous to tell ukrainian demonstrators facing government storm troopers to just grin and bear it without any external solidarity or support . it venezuelan demonstrators the same tell is as preposterous . .
true , far-left parties the slump of post-crisis made advances have . have to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown most suggests that nation@@ alists . , but history . it is easy to see why . knows no frontiers of national in principle ; it is a globalizing creed . instead the point at issue becomes precisely . in large-scale economic crack-ups the face .
london – “ what if this is ‘ as good as it gets ’ ? ” jack nicholson asks , as he walks through his psychiatrist ’s waiting room in the eponymous film . at the recent meeting of g-20 finance ministers in shanghai , participants were asking much the same question – and not just with regard to medium-term expectations of weak global growth . many are now wondering whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it gets for a long time to come . determining the validity of such fears requires understanding what is driving china ’s economic slowdown .
the internet is also disseminating templates of what real democracy looks like – instantly and worldwide . people in ways that indicate that they have little interest in being cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalities , or religious identities , i use this technology . , not surprisingly . overwhelmingly , they economic self-determination want simple democracy . . that accustomed to operating without citizen oversight have grown . , the interests of global capital and governments is in direct conflict with agenda . . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupy moscow – gain further coherence .
but three of the european union ’s four largest economies – france , italy , and the united kingdom – all have large debts and annual deficits that point to even higher debt ratios in the future . 's funds that would otherwise to finance productivity-enhancing business investment be available . in the national debt of a rising level fear discouraging investment will further higher taxes lead , businesses now . that a worrying prospect is for everyone . . when interest rates rise , as surely they must , servicing the debt cost will require higher taxes , hurting economic incentives and weakening economic activity .
they pioneered institutions of new retail , from department stores to box stores . the fastest growing sectors of the economy since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely classified as “ service industries , ” often involving the dissemination of information and entertainment – activities in which jews have been especially prominent , from publishing to vaudeville and from movies to commercial sports . they also tended to do disproportionately well in the learned professions – such as medicine , law , and accounting – that are so central to modern capitalist society . given as a reason for their tendency to devote themselves to commerce , finance , and the professions is sometimes . is jews were long a minority subject to discrimination fact . under market competition conditions , to discrimination , yet not all minorities long subject necessarily succeed .
until now , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . be key to investment gap closing will therefore private capital crowding . to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low - and middle-income economies , we propose a new holistic framework developed by the one planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . the framework , called “ vision for an environmentally responsible transition – infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) , aims to help unlock the pipeline of projects and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to large-scale investments by institutional investors around the world . covers energy , energy storage , transport , and buildings , sustainable infrastructure : four sub-sectors with a particular emphasis on projects in urban areas , vert-infra initially .
today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and in contrast to 2001 ) , the us appears to be crucially weakened . moreover , new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have come onto the international stage . without the support of china and india , america ’s middle east policy can no longer succeed , but this support is only granted half-heartedly – if at all . contribute substantial support is willing . , and europe beijing and new delhi holds very limited interest . . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb – and plenty of new dynamite is being accumulated throughout the region .
this no longer is a story . , but creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . keep arguing that competition and technology wreak havoc upon society 's harmony ; that they create inequality and eviscerate the middle class , skeptics . for those who sit on their backsides and live at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers , the new economy is tough . true , it on the sidelines , people have a chance . .
similar , albeit criticism , less definitive have received . is chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer . the next step in the reevaluation of cancer screening was taken last year , when researchers at the dartmouth institute for health policy announced that the costs of screening for breast cancer were often minimized , and that the benefits were much exaggerated . indeed , even a mammogram ( almost 40 million are given annually in the us ) that detects a cancer does not necessarily save a life . the dartmouth researchers found that , of the estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us , the test did not help 120,000-134,000 of the afflicted women . the cancers either were growing so slowly that they did not pose a problem , or they would have been treated successfully if discovered clinically later ( or they were so aggressive that little could be done ) .
this as may be an even bigger problem than was previously thought is a rising population . , it 's important . . there is now a 70 % chance that the world population will not peak this century , and an 80 % chance that it will reach 9.6-12.3 billion people by 2100 argues . is a new study . sub-saharan africa – persistently the poorest region – will be the main engine of demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow down this engine : improve women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for the 215 million women worldwide – a large share of them in africa – who would like to avoid pregnancy would cost about $ 3.6 billion annually .
they should receive no favors , but should be free to bid for state-owned enterprises . is not jobs is the iraq of the problem of fundamental . the current conflict driving is not in contrast to the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions . this a life of better for economic justice is not a struggle for power . . are political , sectarian , and personal is the root causes .
on russia since its invasion of georgia , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of congress to visit georgia after the invasion ) , emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . on the hand of other , mccain wants to punish russia by such actions as expelling it from the g-8 . they wo n't survive as an independent democracy , help georgia . , but such measures may ultimately be necessary . moreover , even after the outrage in georgia , there are issues of common interest – such as energy , climate change , and iran – on which the west and the kremlin must cooperate . not to recognize it , and it looks like during the war of cold , it was true . .
the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader . to us , growing challenges interests elsewhere in the world a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've already been at an military escal@@ ation uncontrolled interest for decades after all , iran and the . projects about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months , they offer their best asked his commentators . as in previous years .
as with a de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north , member states remains the country to data . , i 'm eroding . is gradually central authority . meanwhile , in yemen , the possibility of adequate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts several seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a failing economy . the south ( aden ) and east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward another secession struggle nearly 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority . only the west remains subject to the tripoli of the poorly consolidated government ; while the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council , the south remains law@@ less . .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and stimulate economic growth . but that consensus proved short-lived , and soon the public sector ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the main cause of the crisis , and thus needed to be reversed . this a mistake of grave turned . in europe , in particular , governments although caused the collapse of not public borrowing , private debt , their debt were made . . were instructed growth with counter-cyclical policies stimulate to introduce austerity is many .
we must just as we fight exclusion in our societies , fight exclusion from our political parties . . this and more opportunities for women and the disabled creating means welcoming migrants and minorities . . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide and the knowledge to decide well . we 're undertaking far-reaching reforms in this direction in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead . likewise , the international of socialist goal is governed not by free markets , but by free people is a world . .
the eu destroy was the euro . in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . has given the us an important competitive advantage and in petrochemicals in particular , in manufacturing in general . is shale energy . the deleveraging of some progress have made . , the banking sectors . values boosted asset is quantitative easing .
yet , by the mid '70s , when i first went to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was not emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ” even though the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many also help its democracy , openness , energy and willingness came to admire america . . this divided attitude meant that china tended to react in ways as contradictory as they were impassioned and unpredictable , especially when its pride was piqued . the idea of a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation was china 's new nation@@ alists more . , nothing . a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the humiliating prospect of feeling unable to resist foreign predation , nothing provoked .
third , we face steeply rising prices for fossil fuels , as developing countries ’ growth drives up demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas are depleted . sure , we can find more fossil fuels , at industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damage risk much greater environmental , but much more cost . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is a lot of hype – similar to the gold rushes and stock bubbles of the past . deplete far more rapidly than do conventional fields is shale-gas wells . they 're boot dirty , and .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is a little more than a month away , but already the campaign seems to have been with us forever , rolling implacably forward , but with little evidence of any genuine excitement – or even significant movement in the polls . support for the two main contenders – the labour party and the ruling conservative party – seems stuck in the low-to-mid 30s . the conservatives hope that the government ’s record on the economy will convince undecided voters to break in their favor late in the campaign . maybe they are right ; they deserve to be . labour seems while keeping their collective fingers crossed that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatening to sweep the board , for who-knows-what to turn the tide hoping in the meantime .
is it really an american tradition not to care about others what happens ? relates to the role of the decision-making consciousness is summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion , the second insight from psychological research . . that our conscious thoughts devise , ex post , compelling rationales for many decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously , recent laboratory shows . for example , president w. bush george former us might to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for many reasons : strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even competition with his father have decided . . most of them mass destruction weapons did not be involved . .
furthermore , in addition to trade policy , also matter , of course , other factors . are among other significant factors in promoting economic growth is civil and political liberties , random violence , property rights protection . income growth relative , fiscal restraint as low government consumption reflected is also important . as as markets , bad climates and poor soil distance , such things , geographical location is also important . this because they are the best tools available to compensate for the bad cards which nature sometimes deals out , it makes all the more , open trade policies crucial . , but
durham , north carolina – my day begins with a cup of coffee and ends with hot chocolate . i consume medicines and food a variety , including my daily 81 mg dose of aspirin in between . i catch a glimpse of my green garden , and my study enlivens is brightly colored . . in short , my life – like everyone ’s – is enabled , enriched , and extended by a wide variety of plants and their derivatives . but as human activity devastates forests and other plant-rich habitats , it is under threat . is the biodiversity on which all of us depend .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has been repeated so many times over the past 40 years that it would seem mundane if it were not so dangerous . stop settlement activities in the occupied territories mounts on israel . or international pressure : the cycle goes something like this . israeli settlers and their supporters then gather even more energy to expand onto more palestinian land , build more exclusively jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes before the so-called “ freeze ” comes into effect . while this happens , he becomes a joke . , the process of peace . materialize fails , the freeze world pressure sub@@ sides eventually .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the federal reserve ’s mandate to maintain “ stable prices ” – as enunciated in the federal reserve act – and the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . have managed to substitute the latter for the former , policymakers is it . , so how ? the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 50 , or even 100 years from now . by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that $ 100 can buy today will cost $ 122 at the end of the decade . will be a whopping $ 724 is the tag of price after 100 years .
as a liberal myself , i share these values , but recognize that insisting on them as a matter of policy ultimately undermines migrants ’ interests . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether the newcomers desperate for a job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) , or by not being admitted at all . skills-biased immigration to a similar dilemma gives rise . . only the best groups of immigrants , but to a brain drain from countries that need highly skilled workers , he leads . , is this approach . is many in europe . but , again , one must examine the trade-off .
instead the reforms were decreed from high above , without having any grassroots support – and thus with no lasting durability . all we the street and the masses rather than a social genuine agreement encouragement had direct appeals . . the authoritarianism of the wellspring is such a direct method . we must understand and control them that choose the leaders , but it emerges not only when the public is apathetic or frightened , i recognize . . as a result russia now confronts a situation the president of the election is the only political issue in which .
likewise , greece ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio is only 13 % . and 20.8 % the eurozone-wide rate far 8.7 % exceeds the ratio . . to be sure , the unemployment ratio youth of 13 % or 19 % is not grounds for complacency . but , while the eurozone ’s youth unemployment rate has increased since 2009 , its ratio has remained the same ( though both significantly exceed pre-2008 levels ) . during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare unfavorably to rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , the us , and germany , respectively .
alternatively , a supplier of new of reserve assets could be china . in this scenario , the supply of the reserve asset would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions . this connection could be direct , if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or indirect , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , becomes a favored asset of reserve managers , as the renminbi is now in the sdr currency basket . is the ambition of long-held , though the idea has never gotten much traction is for the sdr , reserve status . . there global demand for us reserve subside assets is a third possibility : , but .
have pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , 35 % to 15 % the corporate tax rate including reduction . , trump it seems likely that the us will face rapidly rising fiscal deficits and a huge short-term increase in demand , and add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and increase spending military . with the us economy already operating at close to full capacity ( unemployment is below 5 % ) , higher imports – and a stronger us dollar – will be needed to meet that demand . good for the eurozone , the export market leading remains for which will be all of this . it 's likely to the most benefit in the peripheral countries , but .
princeton – for the last century , economic-policy debate has been locked in orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and the market . does the market control the state , in the sense that it sets a limit on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially necessary functions – such as fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? this old debate is at the core of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . the same question is dividing american politics in the lead-up to november ’s presidential and congressional elections .
british negotiators will then respond to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory logic by trying to make the process as painful as possible for the rest of the eu . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit will hurt europeans much more than it hurts britons . this means that have a powerful incentive to fulfill its own prophecy in the camp of leave . the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . can not start beating the europeans at their own game by to rival french and italian producers , i making his own wine . by reviving its automobile industry , britain
gone , permanently is now this evolution underpinned the domestic demand excessive . should not go back to zero , but domestic expenditure when the household sector deleveraging is complete . fiscal stimulus , in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts , might help tide the economy over while structural adjustment and expansion of competitiveness in the tradable sector proceed . but boost is not the answer by itself . otherwise , domestic demand shortfall would reassert itself ended when the stimulus .
so baghdad regime change the us goal does not look too bad , even if it can not be publicly supported . for president putin it makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later for his helpful silence in the form of us influence on the successor iraqi regime concerning repayment of the country 's russian debts . if the us war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from the narrow point of view of russian interests , while the resulting mess will be a problem for the us and its traditional allies rather than for russia . underlines the famous pragmatism of not only mr , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policy is of iraq and iran , the contrast between russia 's handling . the fundamental difference between iran , an historical nation state , and 's iraq that , the artificial creation remains this contrast .
kosovo ’s skepticism about serbia ’s democratic credentials is derived , primarily , from knowing that conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not based on a single man . no matter how much milosevic exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians were genuinely popular among serbs . indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus , in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . most kosovars will find talking to serbia about improved relations difficult if serbia does not undergo some sort of “ de-nazification ” process . president kostunica ’s refusal , so far , to even discuss putting internationally indicted war criminals on trial is not a hopeful omen here .
eventually , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and to turn over megrahi – as well as another suspect , lamin fhima , who was later acquitted – to face a scottish tribunal at camp zeist in holland . megrahi was involved in the bombing of lockerbie , but there was no conclusive evidence . that he was convicted fraudulent evidence using , and that the bribed witnesses cia , most experts believe in fact . furthermore , libya formally accepted responsibility for the bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims ’ families , and to abandon its weapons of mass destruction program . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace from western leaders ( and a flood of investment ) , the relationship remained plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
the development of talent to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond is his dan@@ go@@ te academy . motivated him to establish . is this experience . enhanced prosperity are aligning education with economic development is crucial . . is such initiatives . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens – more than either india or china . with the right education , skills , and job opportunities , the workforce of immense could sustainable rapid economic growth for the region deliver . to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and , ultimately , conflict and chaos is more likely . without them , the continent .
the husband of aisha , another woman of young when she ran away , she cut her nose . . for many reasons , in afghanistan , violence against women . remains . first , the country has inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes women ’s inferiority . are therefore their basic rights and freedoms deprived , women . second deprive women a political incentive strong is there their rights .
but entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was meant to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals such as productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness . at first , events played plan according out . during the period of greece ’s accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . fell rapidly both inflation and the fiscal deficit ; became more confident in businesses and consumers ; investment picked up ; and the government put in place an ambitious package of liberalizing reforms . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to over 4 % in 1997 – and stayed around this level until 2007 .
the european parliament , for its part , has already broadly supported such a move . is building a phase-out of hfo in the north momentum the danish shipowners ’ association and the arctic expedition cruise operator hurtigruten are just two of the players calling for tighter regulations or an outright ban . maintain a level playing field have underlined the need for regulations . is other companies of shipping . hur@@ ti@@ gru@@ ten joined the alliance of clean to the arctic commitment launch in january 2017 .
was a little of both is john kennedy 's f. . he the missile crisis cuban had a thing of great : . indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy ; and his gift for motivating people was unmatched . there was no great figure since the death of south african president nelson mandela , who combined courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance in africa . in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders i have met ; the other two – former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – also are either african or african-american .
sanibel – the restoration of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states unlocks new prospects for the island ’s economy . are prohibited by the helms-burton act , adopted by the us congress in 1996 is including trade embargo the removal , some steps . but the renewal of cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund is a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 original members . it had an active delegation there was involved in much of the preliminary planning for the 1944 bretton woods conference . .
it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure government officials ’ success . would make terrible policymakers , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or other interpersonal skills is the colleagues of harvard many . and many excellent political leaders – for example , george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents – have not been intellectuals . can deadlocked discredited or parties , play a useful role as honest brokers . , technocrats moreover , they to be re-elected comes with a lack of desire . , but that was limited in advance . or because they are known to prefer a quiet academic life , i have the credibility . .
today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vital to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 – are being made without adequate regard for disaster risk . in protect these new economic assets comprehensive effort the absence , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the decades of coming . challenge politicians and business leaders to and disaster exposure re-calibrate their perceptions should be changed in this sense . there is including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals , only the disastrous impact of natural risks ; that there is no such thing as a natural disaster , decision-makers must recognize . . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which devastated the coastlines of 11 countries , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injuries , and over $ 10 billion in damages – 168 governments agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year plan for reducing disaster risk .
two years ago , scientists from the nature conservancy and its partners published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change . yet natural climate solutions have continued to attract relatively little attention – and even less funding . fortunately , this may to change be starting . . nat@@ u@@ re-@@ based solutions featured prominently at un climate week in new york city in september . although that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to enhance nationally determined contributions by 2020 , ” it did offer a platform to a new generation of climate and nature advocates .
the use admit that fulfilling its part of the nuclear deal is rouhani . was forced . just a few weeks ago . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . but trump wo n’t make it easy for rouhani . in order to ensure that iran continues progressing toward international engagement – thereby protecting a nuclear agreement that trump is not eager to defend – rouhani ’s government will have to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , it will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not spearheading a shia liberation movement .
being dragged into them is more people . , and ludicrous cases proceed . the mainstream independent media do not even report the inconsistencies for fear of provoking the government or the gülen network . under the absurdity of collective weight , these cases will disappear . but will extend far beyond the suffering of hundreds of innocent individuals who have been locked up under false pretenses is the done of damage . lie in tatters will becoming a stable democracy shedding its authoritarian vestiges .
likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would , it was claimed , “ forestall short-term balance of payments pressures , provide mutual support , and further strengthen financial stability . ” but to draw upon the credit line emergency in the current crisis , russia is unlikely . more recently , wang yi of chinese foreign minister russia pledged assistance . but that will probably persist until the crisis is over , a hesitation of larger reflected his vague language . in short , both the western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions have turned against russia .
they will also try to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink sending production facilities to lower-wage countries . while important will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses rather than fuel greater activism , the us politics economic impact . maintain policy uncertainty , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth would be continued polarization of congressional . it would also eat away at potential output over time ; from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls of the labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would below its capacity , keep us economic performance . . from economics to politics , the direction of causal will run primarily in other countries .
paris – the riots that have rampaged across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . this is the europe of socialist parties to varying degrees . that the traditional left is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis is more than strange . instead of thriving on renewed doubts about capitalism , europe ’s socialist parties have failed to make any serious political inroads . they very unpopular are now in countries where they hold power , such as spain . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray – as are germany ’s social democrats , despite their being part of the ruling grand coalition .
the response to 9/11 and to dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with an african chambermaid in a new york hotel have very little in common , except for one thing : once again , cultural conflict was invoked in a misleading way . the fact that he was arrested and paraded in front of the press as a criminal suspect has been very trained in france the international monetary fund and his accuser the former managing director whatever happened . is that of american puritanism , the arrest was typical . is made recently by a well-known french publicist , one allegation . the french , he alleged , being from a latin culture , a more liberal understanding of sex behavior have . they have a more refined appreciation of the art of seduction are more tolerant of human frailties .
would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , shift , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been in an un@@ controlled military escalation , an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define 12 months of the coming , its commentators as in previous years . it 's that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come if this year 's selection of one common theme is there .
they have reason to be proud . they can never again be diverted in our homeland , and these are the psychological springs of democracy and true freedom . , and among the rulers , caution . nobody ever had changed vastly in its twelve years of independence , ukraine , i doubted . . yet , caught in the sights of a gun barrel , nobody – not even the brave men and women who camped in their hundreds of thousands in the snow before ukraine ’s parliament – knew with certainty whether those changes had wrenched ukrainians from the grip of fear and apathy . the success of their defiance shows the power of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for one ’s fate into one ’s own hands .
in two varieties : heavily accented eastern european men and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing to the latest american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid are thought . is prime ministers of israeli . they lacked strategic cunning , but menachem begin and yitzhak shamir previous prime ministers were not lecturing averse . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confuses , and often enrages americans . his relentless disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , security requirements , red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talk about reopening negotiations , which are immediately reject by the palestinians , who , like him , fear showing weakness . furthermore , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east does not line up with that of the obama administration – in thrall to its collapsing romance with moderate islamists – and its devoted supporters among jewish americans .
to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often is more likely . in the context of a personal , organizational , or social crisis is followers . for example , the british public did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but , a year later , his vision , confidence , and communication skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxiety after the fall of france and the dunkirk evacuation . and then , in 1945 , after the public ’s focus had turned from winning the war to constructing a welfare state , churchill was voted out of office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; the change in followers ’ needs did . in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism . ”
the size of the european commission will to retain a permanent place at the commission table be permitted . eu-wide agreement . is also secured by the government . with considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign , the success of negotiating provided the government . economic circumstances to mobilize a majority in favor of the treaty is helping . , this combination of legal guarantees and changed . indicate with 15 % of the electorate undecided that the yes side commands a strong majority of 62 % to 23 % is opinion polls conducted in recent weeks . but is far from clear-cut is the picture .
to reject a merger or authorize an investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor is a decision . might while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles , make economic sense . . to give those in charge of security some say in the process of decision-making , but to meddle with competition rules is not solution . . to that end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we propose that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security be given the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . and the eu should have such procedures in place in the member states eu . finally , promote international use of the euro develop its financial toolkit do better . must be the eu .
a newly passed bill – clearly aimed at israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) – would allow mks to be dismissed for disloyalty to the state . peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents , and ngos focused on human rights . due to in the western alliance , a israel of democratic was a natural fit . , democracy has always been strategic for israel . whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it has not punished israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . embraces putin-inspired practices , however is more israel . , the weaker in the west , his strategic rearguard . becomes its connection . .
were killed approximately 300 kosovar , 209 serb and 3 chinese civilians , but kosovo did not aerial bombardment restricting intervention . to the duties of a national leader , stated bluntly and honestly , forces us to consider a fundamental ethical issue , this approach . be concerned with the welfare of people everywhere should their citizens promoting interests . , to what extent ? mr romano prodi , president of the eu commission , and a former prime minister of italy , responded to president 's bush 's most recent statement by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the entire earth and not only american industry . ” is not only one for those who world leaders be aspire but the question .
on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe is repeatedly being outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . it increasingly appears that ukraine is becoming locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with the fragile but enduring ceasefire – and accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk considerable political autonomy – allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s border . moreover , the delayed implementation of key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine is clear evidence that , at the moment , russia dictates the terms of eu-ukrainian engagement . in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly in view of hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine .
with the weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everyone laments america ’s spendthrift habits . must work to make everyone else look good is how hard americans . , you occur to anyone . , but did it ever ? thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the biggest headache of every developing country finance minister nowadays is trying to keep his or her country ’s currency from going up too fast against the dollar . when was that happened in the time of last ? all from investors looking for an exit as the dollar collapses , fighting capital inflows . are is chronic debt-crisis countries from mexico to russia to south korea .
new york – hurricane harvey has left in its wake upended lives and enormous property damage , estimated by some at $ 150-180 billion . but the rains that inundated the texas coast for the better part of a week , and the hurricane that is about to hit south florida , also raise deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics . it is ironic , of course , that an event so related to climate change would occur in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers – and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil fuels that drive global warming . of course , no particular climate event can in the atmosphere to the increase in greenhouse gases , directly related . be . but scientists have long predicted that such increases would boost not only average temperatures , but also weather variability – and especially the occurrence of extreme events such as hurricane harvey .
rather than banding together , each new challenge has ever-smaller groups divided the eu . ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided east and west ; the euro has and south divided north . engage with the sources of discontent and forms used to express the european ideal rethink . need , pro-europeans . the eu was would reduce conflict , interdependence based on a idea of mechanical . by linking european means of production together – first through the european coal and steel community , and later through the common market and the euro – the eu hoped to bind europe ’s states together so closely that war between them would no longer be an option .
in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is real progress . unfortunately , it is not necessarily the president ’s doing . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to enable obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms met a solid wall of opposition . government and commercial activities virtually ground to halt this spring as democracy activists , in alliance with politicians and lawmakers opposed to a third term , battled obasanjo ’s allies to thwart the proposed bill .
parfit ’s response to this line of argument leads him to make a claim that is perhaps even bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . he considers three leading theories about what we ought to do – one deriving from kant , one from the social-contract tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and the contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism – and argues that the kantian and social-contract theories must be revised in order to be defensible . then he these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism , which is a theory in the same broad family as utilitarianism argues . . there 's much less disagreement between apparently conflicting moral theories than we all thought if parfit is right . the defenders of each of these theories are , in parfit ’s vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ”
firms of large family have generally disappeared with the rise of the business corporation . but that does not mean that a corporation is the right entity to engage in altruism – though its various stakeholders obviously can spend any portion of the income they earn from the corporation and other sources in altruistic ways . instead of csr , we should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . one can also argue for psr on the grounds that asking for csr becomes a way of “ passing the buck ” – evading personal responsibility for doing good . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding from spilled coffee – both the subject of lawsuits in recent years .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be seen as the most significant visit to the region by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . kissinger ’s mission triggered a diplomatic revolution . renewal of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power at the cold war ’s height , and prepared the way for china to open its economy – the decision that , more than any other , has defined today ’s world . will mark the end of the era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the start of a distinct new phase in that epoch either what clinton did and said during her asian tour clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america is unwilling to accept china ’s push for regional hegemony .
his composition is shifting to more sophisticated goods and services as incomes rise , but is not only growing is chinese demand . . thus , china ’s role is changing : once the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western products . this provided that they are positioned to compete for the appropriate parts of evolving supply chains , represents a major opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their growth and employment . . chinese revenue rising also as continued growth , to higher-value activities presupposes a shift . , imply structural changes . . china must begin generating new technologies , in addition to absorbing western tools and skills , but will still be knowledge technology and .
the grand bargains excels , french happens . but germany has avoided these agreements incremental changes of the state quo , usually preferring under merkel . for his part , macron ’s hyperactive diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex , the symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism – are impeding europe ’s normalization , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms . but seem to be reproducing them is his actions of recent .
dublin – europe ’s needs and europeans ’ desires are at odds . the popular support six decades 's last drove european integration . is at a time when strong , coordinated action is needed to stave off financial collapse in the european union . without regard to its potential consequences , indulging nation@@ alist sentiment . was so important . were forgotten after almost 70 years of peace . they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected for independent economic policy to work at the same time . this failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement to individual countries , which forces politicians to pretend that they can address economic issues with national policies alone .
they go too far , but have the skeptics . it the argument merits is still early . for one thing . a full assessment of on the middle east , his effects . the war of iraq will take a decade or more . clearly , the january 2005 election there was a positive step for the region . there and local elections lebanon have been national elections . in the last six months .
in 1989 the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return to europe ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . they brought the lesson that a society of closed moving to one open is both possible and extremely difficult , and . as thomas mann once wrote : “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” changes the choice of the frame and substance , and of individual and collective responsibility , freedom . it on a state that embodies a kind of unshakable fate , the contrast between enterprise and obedience , and a@@ pathy initiative . .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the agenda for the united states in 2017 . for this years , for overhauling how corporate and personal income are taxed , creating detailed plans . has been preparing . is the republican-controlled house of representatives . these plans can provide the basis for legislative action with a republican majority in the senate and a republican president in the white house . very significant is is the proposed corporation tax reform . it will have a highly favorable impact on business investment , raising productivity and overall economic growth , i believe .
to serious distortions of fundamental western values , this alliance between the two parties led . one of the leaders of the opposition in germany did not the cold war as primarily a conflict between freedom and tyranny see , lafontaine pal@@ me and o@@ sk@@ ar . he never criticized repression there , nor the berlin wall how in 1984 , palme visited east . . instead , praised er@@ ich honecker leader , east germany 's leader , the mutual struggle for peace and development underlining shared targets , palme . palme 's main speech mentioned " détente , " " trust , " and " friendship , " but never " freedom " .
a different kind of revolution was taking place in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no desire to be ruled once more by western powers , which had been so ignominiously defeated by japan . their freedom , vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted . these aspirations were often in 1945 , the united nations voiced . the 1945 consensus part was like the dream of european unity , the un . for a short while , many prominent people – albert einstein , for one – believed that only a world government would be able to ensure global peace .
guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson , who had advocated for deregulation and allowing banks to take on even more leveraging , it was no surprise that the administration veered from one policy to another – each strategy supported with absolute conviction , until minutes before it was abandoned for another . even if confidence would have sunk , the economy mattered were everything . moreover , what little action been taken has has been aimed at the system of financial shoring . by the sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population , the underlying macroeconomic problem has been made . : only one of several crises facing the country is the financial crisis but . those who would spend do n’t have the money , and those with the money are n’t spending .
in the midst of a foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods are a particularly powerful danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . to invest a large share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves , keep strong prudential controls on capital flows face a simple choice : , officials . the deeper problem lies with the excessive financialization of the global economy that has occurred since the 1990 ’s . the policy dilemmas that have resulted – rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room to manage the real economy – will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . it that governments have only themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed into this wild ride say is true . .
even a relatively small amount of material such as cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – could cause serious harm if combined with conventional explosives in a so-called dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . to strengthen the global nuclear security framework when they meet at the international conference on nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 is a opportunity . will be foreign and energy ministers . this will be the first such event to all countries , that is open . . at the top of the agenda should be ratification of improvements to a crucial nuclear security instrument – theconvention on the physical protection of nuclear material . to protect nuclear material when it is being used or stored , not just when it is being transported internationally , as is the case now , i oblige countries . would be the proposed amendment .
visit mohali is his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , . , who invited to the last two countries , the initiative was this time . the match was pakistan losing narrowly played on march 30 . however , evenly matched were n't . , the two countries . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , the prime minister , and the chief of staff of the army – it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority . ultimately , protocol rather than process will how bilateral relations move forward determine , but it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the game .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses should be protected through the same mechanisms that the united nations food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ rights of ownership and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao seed accord , a nation can share their seeds , derive profits from resulting products , register plants . exploitative practices that sometimes enable multinational corporations and wealthy governments to obtain outrageous profits from indigenous agriculture reduces this useful policy . it however , to extend to viruses for this policy , is dangerous folly . . if the concept of “ viral sovereignty ” had been applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have central repositories of thousands of varieties of hiv today ; these allow scientists to test drugs and vaccines against all the different strains of the virus that causes aids .
the new government ’s biggest challenge will be to implement reforms that enable italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect . this capital and innovation requires increased investment . . labor in the oecd at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest from 1992 to 2011 . since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries . in the last decade , italy ’s share of global exports dropped from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
the only or even the issue of main is not but technical capacity . distrust experts in a more important reason are probably is conflicting motivations . the work of a misconception is there . think of themselves as advice high-quality unbiased purveyors is policy wonks . informed citizens reasonably fear that the wonk in question may be in thrall to a particular ideology or methodology ; that the advice may be politically motivated ; or that advisers may tailor their counsel to their own career concerns ( how to get that plum job on wall street after leaving government , for example ) .
whichever party combination comes out on top -- and helmut kohl 's coalition must still be regarded as the narrow favorite -- it will enjoy a meager majority , depending for any major initiative on the unlikely support of its political adversaries . thus germany seems a time for the doldrums stuck is destined . . is considerable to the inaction price while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . is increasing and may even bring forth right-wing populists whom democratic germany has so far been spared is with politics disillusionment .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with nearly 40 % of all international commerce , and the growing importance of the euro – crisis notwithstanding – as a reserve currency , mean that the eu , just as much as the us , can set the agenda for negotiating the new global rulebook . does n't the eu , and america acts decisively . the moral ground owing in iraq and afghanistan to its mis-adventures usually vacated . has been confirmed by course europe . europe ’s leadership on climate change and on development aid could , if well handled , be the basis for a new moral authority . but taking advantage of this opportunity governments little sign is there .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is on his way to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . as l.p. hartley wrote in the opening of the go-between : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently there . ” following iran most powerful leader of iran 's second leader the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and
in september 2008 , for example , former president roman herzog published a polemic entitled “ stop the ecj ! ” he and grabbing ever-greater competences at the member states expense accused the luxembourg judges . . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where for some time there has been considerable disquiet about “ judicial activism ” and what some see as an irreversible trend toward empowerment of the ecj and other eu institutions . in many member states , the ecj ’s decisions have produced a backlash , especially on the left , with trade unions and social movements targeting the court ’s alleged zeal in siding with business over workers interests . deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda and ireland on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands during the referendum on the lisbon treaty was such arguments .
at the same time , countries must facilitate workers ’ ability to change jobs through reforms to their labor markets and social safety nets . this labor-market policies backward-looking , to protect workers in existing jobs , to future-oriented measures , such as innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies , which seek seek . means spinning . moreover , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will need to be overhauled , with benefits such as retirement and health care made more portable and adapted to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economy . here , several proposals have already been put forward , including a universal basic income , currently being piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions such as ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and various types of portable social security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . on both of these fronts , france a example of positive is setting . .
as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ we are not killing them faster than they are being created . ” we soft power application failing are . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon are behind our adversaries in the use of communication – either to recruit or train . ” the manner in which we use military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio . in the aftermath of 9/11 , there was a good deal of sympathy and understanding around the world for america ’s military response against the taliban .
that india can have faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy consumption , and a cleaner environment , our study notes . this is not what so far has happened . , but every year thousands hundreds causing , air , soil , and water pollution was growing . have been falling steadily , and whose costs would continue , clean technologies . is the key to a clean future . pay be adopted for themselves sometimes these technologies .
the classroom brings innovation . is also the private sector . for example , some providers are can watch teacher-created videos online outside of class , so that precious teacher-student face time can focus on interacting rather than lecturing in which , i developing teaching models . . deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at once , even if they are hundreds of miles away may be skilled teachers . as a result , students in places where schools have not yet been built , or too few qualified teachers are available , can still get an education . after all , a lecture from a good teacher – even if it is broadcast over the internet – is preferable to face time with an untrained adult .
the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of tires and steel pipes , but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . when congress takes up the debate over climate change , for example , and some lawmakers call for a cap-and-trade system , others will demand to know why america should accept binding commitments to limit emissions while the chinese refuse . china ’s leaders , in no mood to play the scapegoat , will use surging national pride to bolster their position and strengthen their hand in negotiations . the chinese government has invested heavily in recent years in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national champions , ” mainly to ensure that china profits from the power of markets while the leadership controls as much of the spoils as possible . to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often foreign competitors expense favors them . .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation may be caused by permanent supply shocks , they are also unwilling to ease more now . so , even though central banks are n’t willing to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , as they have already done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation may stay low for longer . otherwise , they would need to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates – an approach with which most central banks ( with the possible exception of the bank of japan ) are not comfortable . de-anchoring inflation expectations downward , this central bank patience risks . however , the risk of excessive credit growth , inflation of undesirable asse@@ t-@@ price is much longer with unconventional .
in order to achieve an agreement of similar scale and influence , world leaders – especially in the us and china – would need to be under similarly high pressure . the attractive possibility of an urgent necessity would be a global deal . what would convince chinese leaders that they must rapidly reinforce the open global economy that enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? one such catalyst might be a financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . the global leadership of a contest might serve that purpose as well .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the delaying tactics of the british and french on the eve of world war ii should be a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . he 'll defeat dishonor first in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain . for , although a majority of french today may be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that they will re-elect him in 2012 . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as president that most frenchmen reject ; it is his essence . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by fears about the future , the french need a reassuring father or mother figure , not a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen is entitled to equal treatment under the law .
millions in spending 25 years estimated , on average , stuck in limbo , protracted displacement , they could return how end home . by issuing humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas , or to accept a combined total approaching a million refugees annually , either through resettlement . countries should agree in 2016 . it this is available target is clear . with canada alone saying that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year . must support refugees in countries of major host the integration like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan at the same time these countries of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee required annually to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during the first few years of displacement receive just a fraction . , as it stands .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet , in both countries , some inequalities of social have the last few decades been on the decline . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among the lower castes ) are now politically assertive . are gradually disappearing caste discrimination in the vestiges of most egregious
but to lag behind germany and other northern european countries remains output . , and to rise in the heavily indebted southern countries remains unemployment . . large debts of low demand is not the lag main reason . there is a vast difference between unit labor costs – real wages adjusted for productivity – in germany and in the heavily indebted southern countries . production costs were about 30 % higher exported very little and imported very much than in germany , so greece the crisis began when . indebted countries other production costs were higher than germany in 20-25 % .
we 're embarking on a campaign of election , despite the russian army massed against us . next month , ukraine ’s citizens will freely choose a new president – the best rebuke possible to russian propaganda about our supposed failure to uphold democracy . and yet , as ukrainians work to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , we are facing a new threat , in the form of a “ peace offensive ” – that old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve . russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve a crisis of the kremlin ’s making , is in fact a peace offensive that is offensive to peace . putin ’s gambit is akin to the infamous yalta conference in 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a division of europe that enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century .
in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading for the reactor , killing 108 people . but whatever solace israel could take from the past , the 1991 persian gulf war upset . one came close to hitting dimona , and tel aviv of scud missiles iraqi . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 , further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability to missile attack . and , while israel ’s arrow ballistic missile defenses , which now surround dimona , may be superior to the patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles .
moreover , to accumulate additional dollar reserves of the rest of the world is the financial authorities to stimulate the economy the ability . investors what it takes to avoid a recession , because that is what it did on previous occasions would have done the us federal reserve , i hoped . until recently . now , they must a position to do so may be no longer . in the fed , i recognize . . the fed inflation worry has with oil , food and other commodities firm , and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster . would actually go up in yield and the dollar would come under pressure if beyond a certain point , interest rates were lowered . .
and they will benefit from two educated , employed parents , which means twice as much literate conversation in the home , twice the contacts , and twice the encouragement to succeed , when she has children of her own does marry . educated , pushy mothers make all the difference . as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in the newsweek issue , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women ’s potential for growth . studies show that helping women access trade and grow businesses helps create jobs and boost incomes . ” but than facing the fact that this means choosing to drag down incomes for everyone , everything is increasingly acceptable . terrified , uneducated women to remain home forcing .
one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions are closer to those of the us , or of other english-speaking former colonies . by the 1990 ’s , british euro-skeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and more expansionary than that of the eu . the us has been the “ other woman ” undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner . britain its ability to to european reform of an effective contribution has lost much . as a result . a strong european voice was two decades more ago was the time britain last .
but the battle between pro- and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake – and thus what should be the focus of electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . should be the main item of deliberation for parties pushing for an improved europe for all , this question than an endless defense against euroskepticism . broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . the upcoming election will render the public ’s judgment on the success or failure of the austerity policies that have been undertaken . but it will also determine whether europe will be able to remain the world ’s leading economic power , maintain its social model , and safeguard its framework of rights and liberties in a world that will not wait for europeans to resolve their differences .
which is not only in the eye of the beholder but may be impossible to predict , systemic risk concept . is there . seen as the washington of a systemic risk , but not from most european capitals was of 1994-1995 , the mexican crisis . the parochial of europeans , americans thought . ; they thought the us unduly influenced by its 2000 mile border with mexico . everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though it was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? global financial panic would trigger a default of russian , who thought before july 1998 ?
the eurozone ’s southern european members must reduce their wage costs to claw back the competitiveness that they have lost since adopting the common currency . headed by european union president herman van rompuy , which is supposed to devise fundamental reforms to the rules for economic policy coordination within the eu for the task force has also reached such diver@@ gen@@ ces concern . a key proposal from the task force ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then force member countries to take “ remedial action ” should the eu find large divergences . the wrong direction leading is this approach risks but . a concept of relative is usually terms of unit labor costs measured .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans went to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of the “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” emerging to defend the basic decency democracy is a new resistance movement as more people wake up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and international order . three tactics could be adopted by the resistance . 's just that trump is turned into a lame duck by damning revelations about his administration to hope wait is one approach . could be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment of the us constitution , if deem his own government enough members better yet
make the world a less dangerous place than its consumption of oil a substantial reduction do better . would be no single measure . and would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp increase in the tax on gasoline in the country that consumes more of it than any other : the us , no measure of single . if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would use less of it . with a high gasoline price , alternative sources of energy such as ethanol and alternative forms of transportation such as electrically powered automobiles would become commercially viable . happen immediately would be none of this . americans would make modest economic partners in prices of higher fuel form in the short term .
new york – internet firms are supposed to be all about the cutting edge , but reality and buzz sometimes conflict . of direct-mail marketing and coupons , its actual business is old . , but its focus is the power of groups . , consider groupon . but groupon is spreading that model to a much wider audience – not so much to coupon users , but instead to merchants offering coupons . doing for e-mail marketing what other internet companies are doing for the yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use modern technology to reach their customers is , groupon . groupon now more than 50 million subscribers and aims has for 150 million end : the model clearly for a lot of customers makes sense . .
the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a fall in equilibrium or “ natural ” interest rates , driven by changes in saving and investment fundamentals . in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , together with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , has increased the supply of saving worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived decline in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key obstacle to economic recovery , because it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below the equilibrium level , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . has thus lively debate become subject , stem the decline in equilibrium rates how . however , financial factors in explaining the trend decline in real rates the role is conspicuously absent from the debate .
for half of the total population in the most affluent us metropolitan areas graduates account . , but this new divide is unmistakable as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book the new geography of jobs . . tend to the political divide exacerbate is economic shocks . are their jobs , their housing wealth , and their children and relatives fortunes : those who happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the turmoil of globalization are multiple losers . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have explored the political consequences . they find that us districts where the economy was severely hit by chinese exports have responded by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians – either from the left or the right .
it has not made it public , but information some responsible for the crimes it has investigated identifying has collected . . or by another body created by the un human rights council by the commission . , those responsible the names should be disclosed . be notified and refute the findings given a chance . should to be named . their names and attributed to them to the crimes should be made if their responses are not persuasive , or if they fail to respond . on its own , the human rights council could act .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming particularly weak and divided , the extreme right is cresting in opinion polls . a recipe for disaster could constitute these ingredients . reverting to form be appears is already pen . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained , after she was not invited to a rally the day after the attack . but if the right leaders are collective purpose and political revival a sense of renewed , the attack at the helm .
that but the economy sectors and non-@@ tra@@ dable tradable means increasing capital and human capital intensity . . one should look to higher-value-added components of global supply chains for structural change and the output of a shift on the tradable side . here , innovation and the conditions that support it – including competition and free entry and exit from the market – play an important role . innovation objectives adversely affecting future growth , are unlikely . if policymakers choose a model based on a large state-dominated sector protected from internal and external competition . grow the side of non-tradable
of course , elections alone do not a democracy make . consider those cases when elections empower a majority ethnic or religious group , which then rides roughshod over minorities – an outcome that has been seen all too often in the balkans , for example . the cases when if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of dictatorship , i 'm treated . is the election of a leader . is there . this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a potemkin democracy . this year , neither free nor fair , another election will give another office term to putin .
but the nazis nothing is the iranians . , and there like the soviet union posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 is no country . . the tendency to to each other , compare of negotiations , two sets . was equally problematic . they have little in common behind timing . what they do share is that their “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats made the alternative – no deal at all – much worse . in greece ’s case , negotiations were propelled by the specter of an embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with his dangerous revisionist ambitions , or acting as a conduit for europe-bound migrants .
what if using a enhancing drug performance for that advantage ? for athletes who want to compete clean , the threat to gain the edge , who takes a drug . , but that they may be beaten by a competitor who is not faster , stronger , or more dedicated . , is profoundly personal . the playing field the cheater tilts in favor . but some athletes use them anyway , i are forbidden . . we owe it to the athletes to deter , detect , and punish those who cheat , if we prohibit drugs in the olympic games . it is at the heart of who we are and how we live , honor a idea of old-fashioned seems .
external forces , meanwhile , compounded the problem . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of short-term “ hot money . ” countries pegged exchange rates problematic more , felt pressure from the imf and the us treasury , more generally . how much the subsequent 20 years has changed . is the crisis sketch . the crisis have ratcheted down their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels for starters .
beyond this , the dollar is n’t going anywhere . it and japan both have been replaced by the euro or the yen is not about . . will have become a first-class international financial center by which , it is coming . is the renminbi . and the ren@@ min@@ bi may replace it the dollar share the international stage . even then . be economic mis@@ management reckless in the us would could precipitate the demise of the dollar .
at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . have in an un@@ controlled military escalation , an interest in neither side , and the us been at war for decades . projects asked to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months for its commentators as in previous years . it what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection .
are contributing millions of dollars to grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election is other wealthy americans number i . we the direction in which the bush administration taking the world united states is are deeply concerned . . america can write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world if americans reject the president 's policies at the polls . the us must have live with escalating violence with the world hostility if american voters endorse those policies . in this effort , i have committed $ 10 million to ' america coming together , ( act ) ' a grass-roots get-out-the-vote operation , and $ 2.5 million to the 'moveon.org voter fund , ' a popular internet advocacy group that is airing advertisements to highlight the administration 's misdeeds .
while russia has not overtaken the us , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . not least as a regional peace broker is likely to the middle east disappoint its fans . , but russia . after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed – and nearly 30 years after the end of the decade-long soviet occupation of the country – the kremlin stepped in to mediate discussions between the taliban and representatives of other afghan groups . yet the middle east – a region of manifold conflicts stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted foreign actors ’ commitment . there is little reason to think that russia , which has never been particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building , will be able to mediate , let alone underwrite , durable peace agreements .
by the compensation that members of this group receive , the decision to continue or shows . , but experience . the fact that are subject to the payroll tax that finances them who collect social security and medicare reflects that . , and this amount partly . the payroll tax paid by employees is 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) , and is in addition to the personal income tax . moreover , because of the complex rules that govern the level of social security benefits , who the tax pays is the worker of older is likely to receive no extra benefits . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work , but how much .
will bring enormous impetus to the whole of europe , particularly the baltic region from which so many new eu members will come is eu enlargement . on how to restrict the visa rights that the oblast 's citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia , there was the kaliningrad of eu interest . these could provide real incentives to make kaliningrad a more attractive neighbor and trading partner , not just a feared source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu taking advantage of a supposedly lax visa regime , and however , and economic growth trade will increase eu expansion . . the rest of the region will be shamefully striking , but if this kaliningrad contrasts between , it fails . . in designing a viable future for the enclave , russia 's leaders forge close cooperation . must be the eu .
without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely limited – creating a serious problem for developed and developing countries alike . lev artsimovich , the tokamak ’s inventor , said that “ fusion will be ready when society needs it . ” one he is right hopes . . but the world should step investment in the technology rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy the odds . may depend our future
would n't with less financing , a program tougher for any country outside the eurozone the imf ? the apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that the managing director who made the decision to support greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone and , at the time , was barely disguising his ambitions to run for the french presidency – that is , before his arrest in new york on charges of rape . europeans , moreover , dominate the fund ’s leadership . it sums lends them dominate a international institution . is a bad conflict of interest . . this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s managing directorship , and yet christine lagarde , french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation .
so closely connected will this year second half face . it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms , you need the team strongest leadership . will be the eu . just promising are far , signs . ideas on the horizon are few new faces . , there . we must hope to be surprised .
on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers that women face in getting nominated for elected office and conducting successful campaigns , a nuanced approach would focus . such obstacles include the election system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single-member districts ) ; lack of access to financing ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make it harder to take on punishing and unpredictable working conditions . overcoming such structural barriers supporting women candidates requires a strategy of comprehensive . . is money for one of the most powerful tools becoming regardless of gender for most aspirants is the campaigning of the cost in many countries .
's like shooting at a moving target in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure : this reflects both a public-investment deficiency and an information gap . labour markets of equilibrium , i are out . given imperfect information about future needs . powerful global technology and market forces are not any country of single confined . arising everywhere , with differences in outcomes reflecting variability in market flexibility and social-policy choices is the issues of same . date about 1980 , back to is these trends of adverse .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the arrival of “ web 2.0 . ” whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of different kinds of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the whole process interactive , removing the final frontier separating the transmitter and receiver of information . but we have been here before – in fact , for most of human history . began in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market for 300 years ago is among producers and consumers of knowledge of the sharp divide . to impede attempts to render cyberspace a free marketplace of ideas remains copyright law , their success legacy .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal aims . so delegation after delegation of ministers , mayors , and assorted financial center lobbyists have been filling london ’s best hotels and providing a welcome boost to the high-end restaurant trade . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have been making glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive advantages over london : lower property costs , lower corporate tax rates ( that sounds plausible when claimed with an irish accent ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and porsche dealerships – all the essential services that make up a vibrant financial center . a smile of wry or two have raised , some of these presentations . french president françois hollande was elected on a claim that the world of high finance was his enemy .
that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to dial up its disruptive activities in a number of theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( they , too , have noticed that the uk is europe ’s weak link ) . iran ’s increasing aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , which is reportedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . iran will misread the situation and cross a red line , or iran 's pro@@ x@@ ies is . , the danger now . iran has been understandably frustrated by europe ’s slow progress in launching instex , a bartering mechanism designed to allow for some trade between europe and iran despite us sanctions . but who are simply wrong claim they have nothing from europe gotten .
so managers are quick to embrace " aggressive " or " creative " accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risks , and portrays a smooth record of profit growth . finally , managers , not distant shareholders , consulting jobs lucrative and well-@@ paid appointments control access . so often co-opted external auditors and internal . to be sure , the us corporate and securities scandals exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example , or excessive reliance on peer review for auditors and on so-called " chinese walls " to keep brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . moreover , us accounting standards have to cope with bookkeeping 's uncharted frontiers of off-balance sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and byzantine contract valuations been .
countries in asia – indeed , countries throughout the developing world – are simply not exporting their abundant and economically important genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , promised an international regime on access and benefit sharing ( abs ) of genetic resources . this would allow researchers and companies access to the developing world ’s genetic treasure trove in return for a share of the profits from the products that are then developed . but there was benefit-sharing over the past five or so years , and proven elusive the regime 's brokering . this potentially huge environmental , economic , and social losses implies .
unequally distributed than in the last years few , though they will still accrue disproportionately to those who are already better off , i be better . will be the benefits of economic growth . will stabilize at lower growth rates than recent historical averages , while continuing to mature structurally is the group of second , led by china , . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them more sustainable – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake , but not derail . they 'll to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , the private sector empower , and expand the scope of market-based economic management , work and will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries and complicates regional policy decisions led the third group by europe .
these measures costs have borne once again , european companies . and europe has struggled to maintain the iran policy autonomous foreign because european firms are so heavily integrated with the us economy . the european economy will remain highly vulnerable to us extraterritoriality may be the dollar rival made into an international currency . . soft-power weaponization third area has particularly with respect , been technology to 5@@ g . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not only to improve mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of the internet of things and the digitalization of entire economies .
so the gap of parti@@ san performance what accounts ? blinder and watson suggest that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may together explain 56 % of the growth gap . but it is impossible to know the extent to which these factors were influenced by the us president ’s policies . we know for the other 44 % of the performance gap even less about the factors . in assessing clinton ’s statements on this topic , the fact-checkers make much of the finding by blinder and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are not more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents , and therefore can not explain the performance differential .
but may be more realistic for a sub-grouping of asean , and that may be too difficult politically . for the us to press for a trans-pacific partnership is another option . this was proposed late in the bush administration in order to forge links with some asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as others across the pacific . this could be built up to include other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with the eventual aim being an apec-wide agreement , which would be an impressive achievement if realized by the end of 2011 , when it will be obama ’s turn to play host to all the leaders . the american public may question better in and unemployment crisis time .
seem to be listening , much less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness in few outsiders is . is the trouble . they risk aggravating the potential challenges , as a result . this is particularly true of those policymaking entities that possess much better tools for addressing advanced economies ’ growth and employment problems . rather than use the opportunity provided by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many of them have slipped into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . in the united states , for the fifth year in a row , congress has yet to pass a full-fledged budget , let alone dealt with the economy ’s growth and employment headwinds .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector employees – people who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure – receive the type of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan ’s retirement , according to the pension rights center . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’s lead and link politicians ’ pensions to their performance . like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , who decisions made bad , policymakers should face clawbacks , in the form of reduced pensions . a pension is a long-term commitment from the state – and , ultimately , the taxpayer – to an individual politician . must be paid for 40-plus years if at age 50 starting , politicians are receiving pensions .
abbas ’ presidential term has expired , and elections are constantly being postponed . keeps parliament inactive , and silences the opposition is rules by decree , the prime minister pa , salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza . the pa on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will to rely on its security forces is bound . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy . of course , throughout history , liberation movements of national have to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to reach the promised land had . . this of zionism , of the italian risorgimento , and most recently of the catholics , ireland was true . .
the commander of the guantánamo task force , rear admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended harsh treatment of his prisoners , claiming , “ they ’re all terrorists ; they ’re all enemy combatants . ” but made mistakes before has is the cia . for example , murat kurnaz , a german-born turkish man , was held in guantánamo for four years before being released last august . the case of khaled lebanese descent a german citizen , el-masri appears to be another of these errors . he was taken to afghanistan and interrogated for five months before being released without charge , the cia in macedonia seized . .
the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister – although he is formally denied that title , this is what everyone will call him – with a strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and the council . by an elected president of the council , the rotating presidency will be replaced . given to the european parliament and the national parliaments will be a stronger role . , and struck between the eu and member states will be a new balance . . majority decisions become the general norm will be binding rights legally fundamental endowed . had to be this agreement paid is a high price .
we must the question answer can be hope by the government . . the most interesting parts of “ future of finance ” concern how means of payment are changing . is in decline in many countries , though the rate differs markedly from place to place , cash . dropping by 10 % per year in the uk , while it is barely changing in germany is now . has fallen by over 80 % in sweden in the last decade is cash usage . van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . ”
has serious implications for the fund a potentially insolvent country lending is the second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe . for starters , taking the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , an imf loan would entail substituting its “ non-defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund ’s money is used primarily to service outstanding bonds . at the expense of those that became junior to imf debt and remained highly exposed to a likely restructuring , there would be lucky bondholders group . since a “ haircut ” can be imposed only on whatever is left of the defaultable private debt , the larger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability . the market perspective of a burdensome legacy may be provided for the reason of same .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves – the result of persistent current-account surpluses – market and interbank short-term interest rates are soaring . what should policymakers do about it , happen did this ? structural , at root , is the problem . china ’s monetary stock is relatively abundant . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with an m2/gdp ratio of about 200 % , compared to about 80 % in the us .
much more is needed while institutions innovative research and training programs focus on these types of health challenges launched , and weill cornell . another problem is that the region ’s education and training programs do not encourage enough systemic thinking . engineering , medicine , social and management science multidisciplinary integration , and the humanities is moving toward , public-health policy worldwide . the standard of global is not yet embracing a approach of integrated . are important for public health and new technology ; but they will be ineffective if they are not tailored to meet the real needs of local people .
primary in november , will be the party . given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that the winning republican will be france ’s next president . and though juppé remains far ahead in the opinion polls so far , the french could reject his happy version of french identity , in favor of sarkozy ’s much darker one . i still believe that juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . he resembles a french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise than the conquest of power in profile and age terms .
under the banner of “ simplification , ” the “ how ” is gravitating towards outsourcing most of the implementation to agencies that are to be endowed , one hopes , with greater flexibility to fulfill their specific missions . this and as thorough revision of the financial regulation for the entire operation and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape , which is all over them . , the european commission requires more effective interface . . which parts of the framework program be continued are , and which terminated , you lie ahead : , some tough political choices ? achieved used and fully can not be only technological , but social as well . , how ? most importantly , to get eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more efficiently for a common european future are optimal changes . , what , and perhaps ?
taken hold of the younger generation of arabs , who represent over 50 % of the region 's population is alienation and despair . should worry america and its arab allies , not reassure them , because it means that there is no way for the public to channel its interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully is political repression and opinion arab public silence . defeat felt by arab youths and make them inclined to join al qaeda-style holy war cells deepen the sense of victimization would be the iraq of a us invasion with large numbers of civilian victims . a war likely play the life of a new lease into the hands of al qaeda will undermining militancy . to capitalize on the coming war with iraq are already positioning . is hoping to recover from the devastating blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , militant islamists .
but those troubles inevitable make would be nord stream 2 . be russian aggression a victim of even easier than it is today would be a poorer ukraine . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close down . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be consequences spared . by committing to buy more russian gas than necessary , and for a longer time , the eu would be helping to finance russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to peace in europe .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , despite the threat ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . but there really is no mystery . pay players throughout the health-care system to favor over lower-priced alternatives for the drugs of expensive is pharmaceutical companies . who should be acting as patients watchdogs , and these are happy . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after iran 's second leader most powerful its targeted killing .
but while there are many reasons to blame foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will solve nothing . the arab world has many problems of homegrown , too , including unholy alliances , and un@@ developed capacity , inefficient and ineffective governance after all . to feel disenfranchised in which majority of citizens , shape his future . , disaster is helpless . though the arab world is traditionally conservative , are below its citizens almost 70 % , and from the highest rates of unemployment , young people suffer . this also a serious long-term sociopolitical problem constitutes not a tremendous waste of resources . .
to ensure that female vaccinators stay engaged in this fight , it is essential to address the obstacles – whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay – that they confront . these women risks take to protect everyone from a disease that has taken an enormous toll on global health , i forget . , let us . as a polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with complete eradication in our sights , we might allow polio to return . female vaccinators number has increased since unicef began emphasizing the hiring of women for its polio program in 2014 . are women in the nigeria vaccinators % of nearly 62
a large minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits filter bubbles created by these platforms – digital false realities in which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme . in the us , adult population approximately one-third has become imper@@ vi@@ ous demonstrable facts including to new ideas . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking . ” deal with this threat is unprepared . is western democracies . lacks the political will to create one has internet platforms for no effective regulatory framework . is the us .
she he expects them to be treated humanely , i said . , and american troops were in iraq captured . " if not , " the president warned , " the people who mistreat the prisoners will be treated as war criminals . " drove home the importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions and the question of how war crimes trials may be convened in post-war iraq and who will conduct them is president bush 's remarks . for war crimes trials covers violations committed before the current conflict began , the us plan . american officials recently of iraqis who would face trial for past crimes released a list . .
second , today ’s algorithms are becoming very good at pattern recognition when they are provided with large data sets – finding objects in youtube videos or detecting credit card fraud – but they are much less effective with unusual circumstances that do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or a bit “ noisy . ” you need social awareness of his or her experience for a skilled person , to handle such cases . or they 're recommending a particular course of action they have done what . , the best systems can not explain third . in these “ black boxes , ” you can not simply read the code to analyze what is happening or to check if there is a hidden bias . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications – you need a trained human in the decision-making loop .
the federal budget for a sensible system of distributing budgetary resources among the tiers of authority makes the income tax to the regions . : the country also the road of fiscal federalism advanced . the second important area of progress has been reform of russia ’s federation : establishment of federal districts and reform of the federation council . the federation can not exist depends on the whim of local administrators . ; laws are not observed by some of its constituent members , but these changes are controversial . president putin ’s moves to strengthen an integrated power system are therefore logical and correct . russia is today a realistic , even if imperfect , federation as a result .
this is more than a little concerning for israel . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , the hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the security cabinet , quickly expressed concern about the arms deal . within israel ’s right wing , many worry that trump is merely trying to appease israel with rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as the mainstay of us interests in the region . it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . but , given trump ’s failure to take a real stand on any of the core areas of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and the status of jerusalem – the idea that he is playing some well-thought-out long game on the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched .
and spread elsewhere do not appear . , weaknesses in the housing market london . in fact , in the northwest , real-estate prices of residential are of accelerating upward , you showing signs . . would have the uk economy far-reaching implications if this trend does endure to reverse the disturbing regional inequalities that have in recent decades emerged , the north strengthening rental markets could do wonders . one thing we can be absolutely certain about is that the government should continue pursuing policies to engage with the northern powerhouse , and perhaps with the “ midlands engine , ” too .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational companies ( mncs ) have been gaming the rules of the global economy to minimize their tax liability – or even eliminate it altogether . and for some time now , the independent commission for the reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for the unitary taxation of mncs . fortunately , is getting a unitary tax idea , there have been a encouraging encouraging sign . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after iran 's second leader most powerful its targeted killing . that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and
funds to help tuberculosis that accompany aids such , i fight infections . ; and this includes : funds to stop the transmission of aids from mothers to infants . it may be possible to extend to even very poor countries to arv therapies with the drugs provided to the poorest countries at the lowest possible production costs with specially designed , low-cost combinations of drugs . development into new and more effective approaches to controlling the disease is a program of expanded of research . must be the third step . to protect against the disease is a vaccine . is the most promising answer for the long term . give hope if the billions of dollars of research and development funds are mobilized by both public and private sectors , that a vaccine can be developed within a decade is the basic science of recent breakthroughs .
in fact , the united nations estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – during their lifetime . but against women violence can be difficult to detect . may choose to ignore it , believing that it is none of their business or too widespread for them to make a difference , or because they are too busy to get involved is even those who of it , i are aware . . clearly , a global shift is needed in attitudes and gender-related standards . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop policies and practices that are sensitive to gender – policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination , while preventing violence , including by punishing its perpetrators .
this month , the new mayors took office without the electoral commission ( cse ) having made public 100 % of the votes , an open violation of nicaraguan electoral law . although the electoral fraud in managua was the most widely documented , the same modus operandi affecting more than 40 municipalities occurred across the country . . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce and political parties , the cse has refused to allow a recount of the ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . and , protested when citizens , the government to curb them resorted to violence . . thus , the fsln government proclaimed itself 109 of the 153 municipalities winner .
even if putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution – a possibility that was endlessly speculated about by russia ’s dwindling band of democrats – the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly obvious . moving from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is merely a technicality . is his own no matter , i 'm czar . will be putin . is a master of facades like any good kgb man is . will make this work . it has been said that presidential democracy only strengthens russian political culture ’s tendency to favor rulers with a “ strong hand , ” whereas a parliamentary system would allow for a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power .
morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after winning international acclaim for his successful efforts to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . the question now is whether the brothers will prevail , both in the streets and by means of egypt ’s new constitution ( which they largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? it would be a bad mistake . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also return with a vengeance in january , after us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election , and will demand an answer within a few months .
was n't enough for democracy on its own : the clear implication . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties – had to be strengthened . the word “ liberalism , ” however , does not mean the same thing to all people . it be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles came in many circles . and it was the alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and the turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for a different form of majoritarian democracy .
despite talk of the “ green economy ” and calls for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . will lift not just the french economy , but all european boats if implemented at the eu level is hoping . , macron . the likelihood all boats giving the populists their chance will be such reforms . is . in fact . in that case , the populist variety will seize the opportunity ? the economist dani rodrik the populism appeal puts into focus . .
bring a lot of new low-wage competition , globalization was intensified . is the first shock . it how to play the game , china decided . gained momentum . , although globalization is a gradual process . ten size times of japan 's china , and japan was not deal with , either is easy . . for example , lost their competitive edge when japan entered the game is optical equipment german precision instruments . including the northern and southern enlargements , eu integration was the shock of second .
after the irresponsible tax cut of reagan 's of two decades ago did , leading to a strong dollar , just as the deteriorating fiscal position of the us is america 's deteriorating fiscal position . a imports good for exports dollar is while countries may pride themselves on a strong currency . in a dynamic economy , if in one sector , jobs are lost . , new jobs are being created in another . to facilitate the movement of labor from one to the other is government 's role . it is a primary responsibility of government to maintain full employment .
to be sure , consensus , compromise , and a pooling of sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many of the great issues – climate change , nuclear proliferation – that bedevil our world . but europe looks trapped between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and uncertainty among individual countries about how to define and secure their national interests on the issues of great of war , peace , and the power of the balance . by contrast , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action as well . geo@@ politics is not all their external actions basis to them . the heart of their diplomatic calculations remains the exercise of power . ; defending the national interest still the publics rallies .
he received 46 % of the vote for tomislav nikolic , the candidate of pro-milosevic . despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s president boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) , who would surely testify against milosevic . cooperated with the tribunal , and paid with his life for it , the first post-milosevic prime minister : one understands his trepidation . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , not after , a war . without full control of either the evidence or the accused , the icty lacked from the outset the legitimacy and authority of “ victors ’ justice . ”
for starters , the global financial meltdown and subsequent recession laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undercutting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are best at shaping societal outcomes . furthermore , china – the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement – has signaled a policy shift toward the pursuit of better social and environmental outcomes , alongside more moderate gdp gains . to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has risen . but the new approach is also based on the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance between ecology and economy . this shift is linked to a third , broader development : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed environmentally , especially in terms of climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump essentially took away my right even to write the word . i 've provided abortion services for more than a decade as a doctor in south africa . i often edit educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention , as my work part . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving information about issues related to sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion law . but two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration – the ngo i was working for halted distribution of a reproductive-health guide because it contained information on south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to an abortion .
heat up at a time when facing a set of daunting of problems is the us . will be the election campaign . how should it approach china ’s creation of not only facts on the ground , but the ground itself , in the south china sea ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea stand forever ? indeed , how can america respond firmly to russian aggression without bringing it the west closer is forsaking by the long-term project . ? sending the middle east ground troops is an alternative . is there ?
it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria , and they wo n't can not . is the world . to more than 60 active members , the international coalition fighting isis has grown . we the territory of 700 square kilometers have re@@ made . since september . we have deprived the group of the use – and resulting revenues – of 200 oil and gas facilities . we have disrupted its command structure , half of its senior leadership taken , its propaganda undermined his financing , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel .
brought it down , and fell in 1989 for the wall of berlin . unfortunately , learned this lesson is not bush . played a significant role in enhancing american soft power is during the cold war and scientific academic . while some american skeptics feared that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to notice that the visitors vacuumed up political ideas alongside scientific secrets . leading proponents of liberalization and human rights inside the ussr became many of these scientists .
forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” mentally destabilizing is japan . , chinese-style and indian-style modernity the emergence . after all , if china is america ’s main economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s main diplomatic partner , what is left for japan ? was during the war of cold is watches resignedly as the new , younger asia , becomes as important for the us as europe , their aging population . george w bush ’s approach was to view india as the “ anti-china , ” and thereby to balance the “ biggest democracy in the world ” against the “ oldest civilization in the world . ”
new york – the global recession now underway is the result not only of a financial panic , but also of more basic uncertainty about the future direction of the world economy . consumers are pulling back from home and automobile purchases not only because they have suffered a blow to their wealth with declining stock prices and housing values , but also because they do n’t know where to turn . should they when gasoline prices might soar again , risk a new car . ? will they be able to put food on the table after this year ’s terrifying rise in food prices ? are even starker decisions about business investment
remained by polish authority trace the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal location for the german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were murdered . the yards deal , sometimes in an extremely complicated way , only for tactical reasons with local governments had everywhere else in german-controlled europe . this is why poland is right to insist that the camps not be called “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) . they in occupied poland , german birds were . .
the main suppliers to the world ’s telecoms companies are found in china , where huawei is now head to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , and finished second to japan ’s panasonic in 2009 . there are now top ten global a half-dozen emerging-market multinationals in the telecommunications sector . brazil ’s embraer revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that others have imitated . india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors .
would be unlikely to benefit much from an inflation surprise , unless it were huge , even with four years debt duration , the us government . meanwhile , its obligations bulk are which can not inflated be , social security and health care . even for distressed households that have borrowed long term , higher inflation the effects are uncertain . what would help is if their nominal disposable income rose relative to their ( fixed ) debt service . yet , with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households could be worse off – with higher food and fuel prices cutting into disposable income .
though china ’s leadership will , it is hoped , lack the drama of 2009 , president xi jinping will undoubtedly make an impression of his own . if he did not miss the opportunity to advance the goal of an asia-pacific trade agreement while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not pass up the chance to ensure that the g-20 agenda serves china ’s interests . of course , with turkey ’s term at the g-20 ’s helm having barely begun , xi probably has not yet settled on specific priorities . but some potential areas of concern apparent are already . elements of the current g-20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , especially with regard to infrastructure .
new york – after the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary gains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of monarchy and church congregated on the right . hence the political terms “ left ” and “ right . ” many commentators on the french presidential election have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , anywhere else . nor left neither himself on being is supported by emmanuel mac@@ ron . to her , macron , in a socialist government , who was a minister . , is a leftist : marine disagrees , whose national front is associated with the far right .
before we the us congress ultimately enacts of whatever law , you assess the success . , it will be a long time as a result . but the criteria for judgment are clear : the new law must curb the practices that jeopardized the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system towards its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially to small - and medium-sized enterprises ) , and operating an efficient payments system . we should toast the likely successes : some form of financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trading will move to exchanges and clearing houses from the shadows of the murky “ bespoke ” market ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be restricted . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged for every debit transaction – a kind of tax that goes not for any public purpose but to fill the banks ’ coffers – will be curtailed . before the crisis , too-big-to-fail banks problem is worse . : but the likely failures are equally noteworthy .
to be sure , most french and german citizens identify as european , as opposed to uk citizens , who identify as british – or even as english , irish , scottish , or welsh . this is why german and french critiques of the eu generally focus on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british often strike at the european project itself . while germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind , france and britain are very minded . , but it comes to security and defense . there are many differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato of course . is nato than france is naturally closer . is the uk .
it is more accurate to say that it avoids a large immediate fiscal contraction , but the new tax law a stimulus of fiscal is generally described . . the long-term implications of the agreement stand in sharp contrast both to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to the republicans ’ counter-proposal . continue 2010 rates of tax permanently for all taxpayers except those with annual incomes over $ 250,000 wanted , obama . for all taxpayers , continuing the 2010 tax rates permanently . , the republicans proposed . by agreeing to limit the current tax rates for just two years , the tax package reduces the projected national debt at the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with the obama budget ) by some $ 2 trillion or nearly 10 % of gdp in 2020 .
spending on automobiles ground until the stimulus programmes government to a halt in many countries revived it . but many people to re-schedule their purchases , such schemes fuel-inefficient old and cars scrapping . at sales in 2010 subsequent years and the expense , the automobile market was saved . revealed that american shopping mal@@ ls at least one-fifth would be made in the us retail market is also the crisis . a hastening of the movement toward on-line purchases , in which physical location is no longer a preeminent part of shopping decisions will be the crisis the response .
the chinese state two centuries official ideology before christ became , confucianism . benevolent bureaucracy under the sovereign ruler was the government of essentially a philosophical justification . , confucianism . harmony between man and nature , as well as obedience within a society of stratified was virtue . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue will give the ruler the people . possessing the people will the territory give him .
a conversion of damascene is not only possible , but is also vital for regional peace . pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah is a three-front war . is now the scenario of most realistic . but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , thereby cutting off hezbollah ’s lines of arms supply while allowing the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . draw into a regional scheme for peace embrace is the only way to the fatal iranian extricate syria . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s paranoiac nature , the syrians are unlikely to meet the us condition for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and their marriage with terror .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the past two decades , wealth resided mostly in the bangkok metropolitan area , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority . while the rural population had more than enough to eat , their economic opportunities and upward mobility were limited by a shoddy education system and docile state-run media that fed them soap operas and official messages . all roads its prestigious prep schools and universities bangkok led for a nobody to become a somebody . thailand ’s farms became increasingly alienated from the urban elite . and prevailed that long , he recognized this urban-rural divide . , thaksin .
some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who attended the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders who had been forced to flee syria for supporting the revolution . the delegates – joined by several sunni opposition members – denounced assad and declared their unwavering support for a united , democratic country that would offer full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or ethnic background . “ depriving the regime of the sectarian card is crucial for its ouster , ” the conference ’s organizing committee noted . can their counterparts inside syria if living abroad for alawites and sunnis can against the assad regime , i stand united . . they can play an anti-alawite sunni regime the rise would facilitate the fear of alawites in syria by setting an example of coexistence .
after the ndb articles of agreement in 2014 signing , china announced its plans . in the case of the ndb , owns equal share of each of the brics , and each contributed $ 10 billion to the initial subscribed capital . although equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ”
the symbolism of a rich country from a poor neighbor with millions of suffering people , i taking money . is barely attractive while the aid is transparent . , in both cases , the us should have said no . and it is particularly bizarre that even as us policy toward mexico has greatly increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-type character becoming president there , officials are providing positive publicity to a government that is a caricature of disastrous governance . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in us dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that drew broad bipartisan support . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . the us show it can be a steady and principled friend that will not be swayed by corrupt bribes of any type needs instead of bashing latin america .
a similar solution should the constitution of european be found . . the imperialism of constitutional cultural pluralism is not supported by europe . indeed , the imperative of political is as great as the constitutional one . committed to democracy worldwide is after all . but democracy must be spread pacifically , force of arms by persuasion of thinking .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . have in an un@@ controlled military escalation , an interest in neither side , and the us been at war for decades . projects about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months , they offer their best asked his commentators . as in previous years . it what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . we had traveled to tijuana to meet with juan , at the request of his lawyer as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations .
trump appreciates what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , using its vast earnings from exports to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he also the us will to create an indo-pacific security zone work with india , i suggested . . in any case , it seems that the potential for us-india security cooperation in the region , while only hinted at in trump ’s speech , has already been discussed by the two governments . the implications of trump ’s speech extend beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . the address also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what might be called the “ trump doctrine . ”
it the reconstruction of japan , the bretton woods institutions , the united nations organized the international order : . the rest of the world the technological of vast , educational , and infrastructural gap has closed us . under that order . as economists say , global growth has been “ convergent , ” meaning that poorer countries have been catching up . the share of the world economy represented by the us has declined by roughly half ( to around 16 % currently ) . have in absolute terms than the us , though still only around one-fourth the size in per capita terms larger economy , china
that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while energy - and resource-efficiency requirements could help to safeguard sustainability , the social responsibility for a focus could help . and innovation incentives and resilient infrastructure are essential as the sdgs recognize . an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion per year costing , be expensive . will not mention the other sdgs . official development is on the decline and can not be relied upon to fill this need many countries of donor given budgetary pressure . . indeed , as a report by the international committee of experts on sustainable development financing points out , the international development frameworks future funding the spectrum must be broader than ever .
they would be unambiguously good for example , if the result of taxes that were then redistributed to oil users was prices of high oil . . to be sure , most taxes entail heavy " excess burdens " : the cost is significantly greater than the value of the revenue raised because of potential taxpayers ' myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . however , does not entail excess burdens , a oil tax . it excess benefits implies on the contrary . ease congestion is means more energy-efficient of transport shifts .
so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those to which manufacturers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , soy or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable them to take advantage of “ qualified ” health claims permitted by the food and drug administration ( fda ) . bringing in about $ 85 billion in us sales in 2004 have done in recent years . is sales of functional foods and lesser-evil . if you routinely buy such foods , you are among lohas ( lifestyles of health and sustainability ) consumers – the health food industry ’s cherished demographic base . you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy and nutrition bars , foods and and vitamin -- , soy foods , and practically anything with a claim of health . i thought functional foods was dominated by small , innovative companies . like many people .
unity is a prosperity foundation supposed . in terms of the gains that would follow from increased trade , the outset defended . was the common market . was similar for then for a single currency , capital-market integration the case national integration and unification were made in the nine@@ teenth century . recalls some powerful arguments . is all of this . in particular , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically highly diverse .
in a sib , the government contracts with an outside provider to achieve a measurable social goal ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private impact investors finance the program ’s upfront costs , and the government promises a return to them if the program ’s targets are achieved . recently , the administration of obama proposed federal pay-for-performance contracts catalyze is $ 300 million fund . . several existing federal programs like the small business investment companies program the act of community reinvestment are growth of impact investing funds supporting . would not exist through grants , loans , and guarantees without partnership with federal government the support of according to a recent study must be an essential feature of all government programs is a feature of essential of pay-for-performance contracts . , metrics .
their presence indicates that behind the parade ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader and more complex story of china ’s wartime experience is emerging . to stress its role as one of the key allies in the fight against fascism and imperialism in wwii is keen . , and increasingly of its wartime role regards western ignorance . , china . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices – 14 million dead – and of its major contribution in holding down more than a half-million japanese troops also reflects the partisan history of the war that was taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp led the resistance against japan . foreign assistance – including the major us role in wartime china – had no place in this story .
to be are made . is these newfound wealth effects really all . , but ? yes , the stock market is now at an all-time high – but only in current dollars . below its january 2000 peak 20 % is still p 500 s & . similarly , while the case-shiller index of us home prices is now up 10.2 % over the year ending march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . creation matters of wealth , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues – europe , secularism , education , business , and more – making it extremely difficult to identify what exactly constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays . in fact , the socialists have started distinguishing themselves not by what they are , but by what they are not , touting the line , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet that distinction may not as the socialists may believe , i 'm powerful . . it was who macron elected the voters of center-left after all . he implemented thus far , every policy . was included in his campaign platform : what they were voting for , and they knew . .
promised in stimulus spending for more than $ 130 billion is even greater risk in saudi arabia itself itself itself , there . appear populated almost entirely and by foreign construction workers petitioning for higher wages and better working conditions , by minority shia , who find little sympathy among majority sunnis , . is several demonstrations of saudi . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than recent media accounts of unrest in the country ’s south suggest . nor does iran ’s government appear to face real danger . the brutal crackdown on post-election protests in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by any means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the last century ’s wars . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption – and all but forgotten by the international community . but now there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not quite in the same category as central america ’s other three . however , of supporting a reasonable level of territorial control and domestic security , it protracted civil war a brutal suffered through . .
have debt-to-gdp ratios over 75 % in in the region ten governments economic security fueling , declined . has slowed as growth expenditures . and against regimes that seem unable or unwilling to make a convincing reformist effort , fiscal adjustment has barely started the rent distribution of the model of old . moreover , algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq new movements 's popular have absorbed from the 2011 uprisings by important lessons . the deep state and the security forces targeting key elements . are no longer content with merely displacing aging autocrats .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is throwing this carefully calibrated system into disarray . far from displaying a capacity to persuade , as the title of his book the art of the deal might imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations – a valid demand – but also that they must continue to channel that spending toward us-made weapons systems . it is also evident in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported enemies .
a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at the stocks and flows of the national account to capture all dangers , including risk in the financial system and the real economy , as well as wider risk issues . how a crisis occurs socialized is debt . , and we have seen in recent crises . they can rise sharply after one erupts , even when are low before debt public deficits . governments looked fiscally sound that suddenly appear insolvent . using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we have identified a number of countries where investors are missing risks – and opportunities .
abedi ’s barbaric act , by contrast , killed at least 22 people , many of them children . in recent years , i have been heavily involved in the policy aspects of this great city ’s economic revival . i chaired an economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as chair of the cities growth commission , which advocated for the “ northern powerhouse , ” a program to link the cities of the british north into a cohesive economic unit . subsequently , i briefly joined david cameron ’s government , to help implement the early stages of the northern powerhouse . it be a venue of great for the city appears , i 've never attended a concert at the manchester arena .
nile delta – about 60 miles north of cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 – there is a secondary school students call “ the prison . ” is pockmarked with age and neglect is a deformed box of concrete the school , di@@ la@@ pi@@ dated classrooms packed . in the sleepy nile delta village , one teacher . morbidly it doubles as a morgue quips . . “ we never saw a revolution here , ” he said a few months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing his job . “ a lot of the hope we had is now dead … it was killed . ”
yet the ten-year fiscal plan approved by the board for the 2017-2026 period – which inevitably will form the basis of debt-restructuring discussions – seems to ignore this circularity . the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and will weaken the island ’s debt sustainability , thus perpetuating a crisis that all parties would like to end . unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected fall in real gnp is highly optimistic , because it relies on a number of implausible and/or controversial assumptions . five flaws in the board ’s fiscal plan stand out . first , the projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp will fall as a result of each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for the gnp forecast assume that a contraction of one dollar in the primary fiscal deficit will be associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp .
open societies evolution detrimental is such control . more effective make would endanger the bank 's triple a rating . , removing this constraint . of open societies in individual countries and the evolution of a global open society , the world 's open company form an alliance with double purpose : , i propose . , i know . such as an international central bank , the second , strengthening international institutions involves development ; is the first . cooperation not only of governments , but also of civil society requires alliance such .
accra – planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to withdraw from the federal title x family-planning program , which supports low-income women . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title x clinics from referring patients for abortions – will cost planned parenthood about $ 60 million annually . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after the second powerful leader of iran 's its targeted killing . interests elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us . a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
yet post-conflict employment policies almost always neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” employment policies did little to reduce the strong regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after the war there in the 1990s for example . given these failings , it is not surprising that employment policies ’ net effects are often very small relative to the size of the problem . creation be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts was thought . in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina . but unemployment was its war ended six years at 45 % in kosovo .
we will strengthen developing countries assistance , and the world toward further prosperity lead . the very foundation of peace is prosperity . japan will to provide opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to all the people in the world , and to fight against poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence . make even more efforts . . we will how japan ended up becoming to the international order for a challenger , the past engrave in our heart . upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values such as freedom , democracy , and human rights as unyielding values , and , by working hand in hand with countries that share such values , hoist the flag of “ proactive contribution to peace , ” and contribute to the peace and prosperity of the world more than ever before .
in saudi arabia , the shia the change of welcoming and participation the forefront are . they form a % majority - of the population in the oil-rich region although they constitute only 20 % of the total saudi population . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered discrimination in the professions : in the military , in high government positions , the diplomatic corps , and most significantly , in the oil industry , where they have been excluded since the 1980 ’s . is legitimised by the wahhabi religious establishment and denouncing them as heretics was supported by numerous fatwas . is this systematic neutering of the shia in saudi arabia . king ha@@ mad al-khalifah the reforms form the population 75 % in ba@@ h@@ rain .
the fund as anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs , life-saving products created economies by pooling resources . then the fund built a supply chain massive to deliver the goods by working with almost 100 countries . by about 50 % since the turn of the millennium have decreased . , and their deaths 50 % from their peak fallen . . continue this work for new funding has $ 14 billion . , the fund . since will help to save the lives of the sheer number , the replenishment is very important news .
it among those who never vote , the percent of people with higher education is twice as high as that of people without higher education , looks like the voter participation lower : , the higher the education . the most men have washed their politics hands alienated for so long . this of political depression is a kind . . only by a positive vision of the future giving the patient , but , depression can be cured . the right-centrist parties – the union of the right forces and yabloko – do have such a vision and people know it .
but if military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism , broad international support will not be forthcoming . been iraq at the heart of the problems is the point of last . augmenting us and british troops with other " western " forces would not , particularly at this late stage , change the fundamental perception of that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond it . with the exception of clear self-defense , military action -- requires only a reformed un security council the explicit , up-front approval . this contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or as nato such , more permanent alliances is true for actions . .
second more children , we by noting that women who were shorter and first gave birth when younger had , natural selection measured effects . . . but that influence height and age at first birth , only one of many factors is genes . enter a mix for personal decisions , nutrition , income level , education , and religious affiliation all the answer was less than 5 % we estimated how much of the variation among individuals could be attributed to biology . be explained by the effects of culture and individual decisions variation left 95 % . , that .
sofia – at a time when the ongoing european debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect europe ’s leaders to strengthen as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they have allowed one of the jewels of post-world war ii european integration – the european court of human rights ( echr ) – to come under threat as well . the echr of strasbourg-based is too much like long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the brussels-based european union . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought its help – far more than can expect a reasoned decision . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions a year . )
corrupt governments may seem essential in competing demands a world . one provides critical energy supplies or access to raw materials the terrorism fight deploys soldiers . . must inevitably contend with difficult tradeoffs , leaders . governments must analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving the collection of intelligence and data to the approach of best in each specific case determine . as security expert sarah chayes argues in against corruption , the volume of essays that the british government will publish to accompany the summit , corruption today structured practice is .
willingly or not , some may seek recourse to inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic savings into financing the state and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) – or , eventually , to outright debt restructuring . past debt crises have been used . is all three remedies of unorthodox . they can as alternative forms of taxation , albeit implicit rather than explicit , i be regarded . . they forcing current and future generations to accumulated debt shoulder the burden are different methods . in the end . full adjust is preferable ?
cautious about visions but must be one . sometimes leaders think that vision can solve most of their problems , but the wrong vision – or an overly ambitious vision – can do damage . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called “ the vision thing . ” when pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied , “ it ’s just not me . ” a vision of far more ambitious developed after the shock of 2001 attacks of terrorist , his son , george w. bush , .
and the private sector around to viewing renewable energies as a potentially profitable business has come . . in the us , fallen by two-thirds since 2009 is the cost of wind energy . , and 85 % has decreased by utility-scale solar energy cost . in addition , according to a department of recent us of energy report , the number of jobs in the wind and solar industries in 2016 alone , 32 % and 25 % increased . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states such as california , which has been taking the initiative to encourage climate-minded technological innovation . and fortunately , in backing away from their climate commitments , i joining card . is not other global powers .
asia could be more severely affected if continue conditions in the eurozone . already , spillover effects from trade and financial transmission channels are beginning to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a significant slowdown , and india ’s growth rate is expected to decline to roughly 6 % this year . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers can help it to avoid a hard landing . further fiscal stimulus employ , it has already monetary policy loosened . but policy mismanagement and local governments and financial sector in structural weaknesses could undermine efforts to safeguard growth .
using historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp reached about $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to constant 1990 us dollar prices , or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 us dollar prices . for example , in the five years after japan reached that level , its economy % an annual rate average grew . fell to 4.8 % in south korea , growth . in hong kong , it 5.8 % slowed . many believe the next five years its annual growth average will fall within 7 % that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year .
we 've already been at an un@@ controlled escalation military an interest for decades after all , iran and the . projects asked the coming will define that 12 months . , its commentators as in previous years . that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come , it 's if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” is that it included a public admission of the united states ’ past missteps in the region . unlike the trump administration , his advisers and obama believed doing so points to a radical change in course when , that there is much to be gained by acknowledging difficult political truths .
some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in the past – are from small countries . preventing small countries – as well as other big ones – from competing for specific vacant seats reduces the executive board ’s potential competency . for their politicians to control the ecb through the appointments process , it makes worse . giving big countries permanent seats on the executive board . it appoint a puppet of political to a system of open competition the board than under the current scheme is very difficult . . the last thing the ecb needs is a political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder assuming mr. issing ’s key post .
but labor costs that can not be addressed by devaluation as long as the monetary union endures , differential cost increases resulting increased much more in the south . . as long as this internal divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be fully resolved , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk the southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign debt and commercial banks . in this context , productivity growth whether through technical progress , better allocation of resources , or productive investment – is as important a variable for the southern economies as wage restraint is . negative effects on productivity is likely . is wage def@@ lation excessive . skilled labor is likely to emigrate faster , and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not exactly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility .
of course , that does not claimed no identity , i mean . . former prime minister john major called the uk “ the country of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beer , invincible green suburbs , dog lovers , and pools fillers and , as george orwell said , ‘ old maids bicycling to holy communion through the morning mist ’ … ” but what he was really describing was england . indeed , modern british identity the elements of key all to england , rather than to the composite entity seem to belong . . that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage , viii king henry decided . , or the church 's church church 's church . the country houses old are celebrated in television dra@@ mas from the prehistoric monuments of stonehenge . is an institution called english heritage .
an active role more was eager for japan , and on creating a durable structure of peace for all of asia are focused . . a partnership of the last six decades been equals than that . that stance is making the alliance much more . in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe undertook – thereby allowing japan ’s self-defense forces to aid allies under attack and to assist the us and other allies in meeting their commitments to securing asia ’s peace – was long overdue . that bold policy initiative – in the face of the japanese public ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any increased exposure to military risks – has no doubt endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists , as well as secured both open and sometimes tacit approval from japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is particularly important now , given american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness .
iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and , as the long lines of citizens eager to cast their votes clearly showed , iranians know it . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are public knowledge . khamenei himself recently admitted that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ not low . ” who is certainly not inconsequential occupies the presidency during that transition . with khamenei having served as president before rising to iran ’s highest political and religious leadership position , it is easy to see that the conservative candidate raisi , had he been elected , could have become khamenei ’s successor .
furthermore , north korea ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as a state , are causes of deep anxiety among its neighbors . however , that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them , there are signs despite all of these obstacles . is the fourth such meeting to be held , in addition to what at international gatherings such as the asean summits , i take place . , meetings is the recent trilateral summit of china , south korea , and japan . however , have not yet any major breakthrough on the most sensitive security issues that divide them made , china , south korea , and japan leaders . but this lack of quick success these futile efforts , i mean . does n't . .
and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit hugely from low-cost chinese imports – the walmart effect – that enable them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes . well in compensating for their inherent saving imbalances while satisfying their respective growth agendas , both countries has served . is this mutually codependency beneficial for 20 years . but prologue be considered should not be past . a seismic shift is at hand , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well be the tipping point . has made a conscious strategic decision to alter its growth strategy , china .
bonds of ten-year treasury now yield just 2.5 % . with the current inflation rate of more than 2 % and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by five-year five-year-forward inflation expectations ) , the yield on ten-year treasury bonds should be above 4 % . a rise of 4 % ten-year yield would those bonds value reduce substantially . other long-term bonds – both government bonds and corporate bonds – would suffer similar declines . credit spreads between high-grade bonds and emerging-market bonds better domestic and has also narrowed . , reaching for yield .
will constrained economic activity , and credit will not flow . moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , the shortage of credit is exacerbated by their need to deleverage . they deleverage by lending less since 's costly difficult to raising capital . but the macroeconomic weakness reduce household wealth and therefore consumer spending goes beyond the credit of the supply of decreased . falling employment lowers pay incomes wage .
have served its firms well , even if they imposed large costs on others may to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation all over the world is enabling america . . the risk the new keynesian doctrines will to serve some of the same interests , you be used . is . , today . who pushed the lesson learned , deregulation ten years ago . , you have these . ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms – the minimum required to justify the mega-trillion dollar bailouts ? been the heart of a change , or only a change in strategy , has there ?
by a variety of factors , this growth has been driven . boosting exports have improved competitiveness . is wage restraint and productivity gains . and the recovery other sectors expanding is now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption . to growth and thus fiscal consolidation , that resolute fiscal policy and reforms ireland gained . , the credibility helped to restore confidence . of course , one country of the approach of precise can not be imitated elsewhere .
su@@ sion on bondholders to achieve maximum participation , obtain binding pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders is the third component . since this scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle and peer pressure is needed . a more orderly resolution gaining time , mitigating contagion , and the size of an eventual write-down is reducing . , but add to the superior outcome . therefore , under this model – and despite the initial pressure – the behavior of bondholders could be considered truly voluntary . and , while rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as a default , the talmudic sages show us why a more thoughtful classification is required .
money merely the gifts we give one another tracks value . ; in some sense , a economy of market is a gift-exchange system . we become very good in a narrow set of skills or products , and exchange them for millions of other things we have no clue how to do or make : a market economy encourages specialization as a result . we doing things remarkably few and buying everything else from others , you end gone . as a consequence . as it is about a place , whether the place is a neighborhood , a town , a state or province , or a country , this observation is true . has grocery stores , beauty parlors , gas stations , and the local community serve movie theaters is every town .
another consortium began to to turkey and the west , build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia . . but trickle no economic led these investments . people here a dollars of few survive . transport conduits , not real employers is the oil and gas pipelines . moreover , was not dollars , but a diplomatic insurance policy - i.e. , western , especially us , concern for the safety of the pipelines , providing strategic export route to the west for azeri oil is georgia 's reward . .
the prices of half are worth is japanese shares . even in hong kong , where shares recently highs hit new , they early 1994 peak are only 10 % . . in the same three year period , prices in street and europe 's wall skyrocketed by 60 or % . or read newspapers what we hear in political speeches bears no respect . . , this picture . politicians warn of the challenge posed by asia 's " tiger economies " .
should be unified , in order to separate private losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authorities , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme , forming the core of a european banking union is banking systems of national . responsible to a directly elected parliament , strong central institutions are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners such as the united states is free-@@ trade arrangements . , and the single market should be extended in the shorter term . austerity should be eased , particularly in the fiscally stronger core economies , and substantial resources should be devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small and medium-size firms in the over-indebted countries . germany ’s reluctance to lead on these issues partly reflects historical inhibitions , which are always difficult to overcome .
china , which has just been celebrating with a martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the “ people ’s republic ” constitutes one of the most interesting cases of a nation evincing “ short sightedness ” towards its past . to show for in its recent history has a lot . , china . just consider the massive access to education of its huge rural population in contrast with its “ democratic rival ” india . so china ’s pride nowadays is legitimate . about to become the second most powerful economy in the world is one torn apart by wars internal and external , a country of weak and divided in 60 years . china ’s insolent prosperity , even if it is far from being distributed equally , china ’s relative political stability , even if the regime ’s opening remains strictly limited , are undeniable and deserving of respect .
the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland could be minimized by issuing debt in sterling , thereby protecting investors from additional devaluation risk . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( profits from central-bank operations that typically benefit the national treasury ) . have last resort no lender capable of stabilizing the and financial banking system in a crisis would be more important . the independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the outset , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates according to domestic economic conditions , all considered of things . by allowing for exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would also enable the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that arise in a currency union : undervaluation , which produces inflationary pressure , and overvaluation , which demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) .
the private sector produces almost 60 % of russian output , and shrunk value-subtracting heavy industries . although transition was bound to be painful , russia 's epidemic of corruption the reform of the effects of economic caused more political damage . . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering enabled opponents to say the " mafia " was grabbing the gains of economic change . this neglect at the polls will pay the government , and thus economic reform , . the world of ex-communist blights reform . , corruption .
he the law for the sake of personal power neither a war corrupt , neither aggressive in his and behavior utterance nor likely is . many people voted by for him by default , both now and when he defeated miloševic in 2000 . though he does not sacrifice major moral principles for power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . he with mediocrities crams his party . , advisers selects usually bad , and does not listen to the rare good ones . it the orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life , and that his image as a right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who would like for serbia to restore its pre-wwii monarchy . , it is possible . .
or to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure of being seen on television may turn the vests of yellow . they will allow themselves to become intoxicated by the sight of luminaries and experts of la france d’en haut ( elite france ) seeming to eat from their hands and hanging on their every word . but if they humble and vulnerable people the lives bring only chaos . , they will to win out over genuine fraternity and choose wrecking over reforming . they will careen off into the darkest side of the political night , and end up in the dustbin of history , where they can rub elbows with those other yellows , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” of the proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . a will to repair , or the urge to destroy ; must choose : democratic re-invention , or an updated version of the national socialist leagues with yellow vests .
according to the vice-president of the iranian-turkish business council , “ it is extremely complicated to do business in iran . ” a former turkish diplomat in iran described the business climate in stark terms : “ it is as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with foreign partners . ” what lessons can be drawn from the failure of turkish businesses in iran ? taxes of high road appalling infrastructure for some blame . others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . still others blame the “ invisible hand of america , ” which is supposed to fear that iran and turkey could become too powerful .
moreover , we must invest in diabetes treatment with low-cost and development research and diagnostic tools that are suited for low-resource environments . needed are desperately is that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to create effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions , smart collaborative projects . among ncds unique is not . , diabetes . are also and more expensive significantly less available for people in low - and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world is essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments . this disparity prompted the medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ social justice issue of our time . ”
south orange , new jersey – if an international organization made recommendations for improving a country ’s economy , and the country adopted fewer than half of them , the organization might seem like a failure . but an international organization should be judged the advice information quality according that it provides , not by whether governments listen . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores the purpose : to encourage – and facilitate – reform by informing officials about its costs and benefits . releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , of previous recommendations and their implementation status , you including a list . is the organization for economic cooperation and development is every 18 months . . the oecd to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme , rebuilding national electricity grid . made 29 recommendations . in its 2010 survey of the united states .
he also must not do anything to weaken the us ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . moreover , he will to although becoming less tenable in the context of inter-korean dialogue is military options . , keep all options on the table . , need . he will need to get the north korean regime at least to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and to agree to a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit , most important . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself if it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran , which he has described has “ the worst deal ever . ” prove to be the challenge of toughest yet could persuading trump to self-reflection engage .
a new beginning is as an opportunity . , another way of looking at german outcome 's election . an end to the cdu-spd “ grand coalition ” could mean an end to political stagnation not just in germany , but at the european level , too . germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway , and , with the sdp determined not to join the government , the most likely result is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s flag ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push for european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come .
the timing could not been worse have . against the transition government , which gave an excuse for nigeria 's generals to re-assert military control , she caused riots and widespread strikes . is fuel subsidies elimination . it would take six long years under rapacious military rule before another chance at democracy nigeria . last year , nigeria celebrated from dictatorship for a escape of remarkable . after the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler general sani abacha – who suddenly dropped dead – the military sullenly agreed to another national election .
these barriers are disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents women , lgbtqi individuals particularly high . instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . uhc programmes design , and they must . care , and it to provide antenatal attention , safe delivery , and postnatal care is not enough . , to reduce maternal mortality . .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has in the non-proliferation treaty nuclear disregard , been made . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stake in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access to , or control of , natural resources . in order to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must be supported by a robust defense policy . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , states that the modernization of the armed forces is intrinsically linked to national development . thus , it the defense industry domestic emphasizes the need to strengthen . .
yao ming , the chinese star of the national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become another michael jordan , and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics . large expatriate communities in the us – 2.4 million chinese and 1.7 million indians – have increased interest in their home countries among other americans . moreover , as western high-tech companies increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time services , information industry in transnational connections are close . but the future lies is the promise of real for china . a country ’s soft power rests upon the attractiveness of its culture , the appeal of its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – the agreement that ukrainians fought and died for in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation can win western acquiescence in his subjugation of ukraine and theft of crimea . the delay , intended to show the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , has instead only whetted putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the winter will cause them to forget their allies ’ security interests – a classic divide-and-rule strategy , served chilled . can not to by it , i be taken . , afford , europe passing through the eye of the storm may be now only . , ukraine .
it recognize that a multinational state is the uk . is critical to reframe the constitution to incorporate regional interests to this end . such radical change – and , to match the scale of the crisis , it must be radical – will require a nationwide discussion , which could be conducted via a people ’s constitutional convention . that convention should start by examining brexit ’s impact on regions . we should if devolved to the regions and nations should instead of some powers and financing , whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , ask for example . . where possible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of agriculture , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to the appropriate regional authorities , such as the scottish parliament , the welsh and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local authorities .
as a result , the us is no longer in a position to set the world ’s agenda . the eu can not possibly take the place of the us as the world ’s leader . and behind the borders of own , but it can set an example . has been the most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies is the membership prospect . although do n't realize its citizens most , the eu an inspiring example serves .
to be sure , putin considers the olympics – and , specifically , medals – to be very important . he military glory conflates sports glory . , like his masters of soviet . that is why he personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; the unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth it , considering that russia won the most medals . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics that form the core of the doping scandal . ) this military glory for athletic glory , i say . is n't . .
but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly difficult time telling its business community not to do business with someone , especially a historic friend and ally . chinese leaders ’ longstanding reluctance to participate in international sanctions is often attributed to their belief in judging actions by whether or not they work . is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and internal fixation is the north korea of perhaps the real pragmatism . china ’s rise is one of the most studied developments of our time . been that of any north korean rocket far more impressive is its trajectory . , and it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide – and producing a lot of contradictory explanations . some global growth expectations declining largely attribute the fall . . others focus on the expansion of america ’s oil and gas production . the united states aimed at other things like russia and iran , among saudi arabia tac@@ it agreement is still others . regardless of the reason for the price drop – probably to be found in some combination of these factors – the consequences are the same .
particularly interesting at the moment is the oil global situation . at around $ 30 a barrel , oil prices are although that world demand is low , a global economy soft means . , she remaining high . . be nonsense has turned . would send the price of oil plummeting break opec . even with improved security , it will take five years to get iraq oil fully on stream . the future of foreseeable rise further should remain high with the american economy now recovering strongly .
after all , if markets truly believed that the ecb would refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would run away from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality was not being met . as with its predecessor , the securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , of the european union treaty ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has no precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to political backlash – witness the visceral reaction of the german press to ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing the fire , rather than negotiating over who owns the water and what its cost should be , i 'm sure historical evidence body . , but om@@ ts . the omt program will cause credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred over the last three years . reversal of that process will likely not occur until the three key elements of banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are within tangible reach .
bi@@ parti@@ san proposals , with seniors receiving subsidies to private health insurance purchase , for premium support should be implemented for starters . to enable individuals to prepare to cover the associated deductibles and copayments , health savings accounts – funds which are not subject to income tax at the time of deposit , and can be used tax-free at any time to cover qualified medical expenses – should be expanded and strengthened . reduce medicare spending , as it establishes a framework for more efficient spending on benefits , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage can significantly improve premium support . so far , the only us presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing reforms of social security and medicare that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations . ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , two candidates of other have also reform ideas raised constructive .
a man of vision is who of the european union on july 1 st becomes president . , silvio berlusconi . american-style suburbs surrounded , a modern metropolis , and then he was the first to see that milan . so estate development of real began is his fortune . the italian state what became privately owned media for italy 's group jump-started would not survive fifteen years later . you tv and the business of real estate without the right political connections do not win . , but .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for public spending – has long been a key feature of chinese economic policy . but this is finally starting to change with funding costs for businesses trending up . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , made lowering funding costs for businesses , especially small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in cautious monetary loosening , which includes freeing up more funds for lending by banks that allocate a certain proportion of their total loan portfolio to smes . the pboc , through its “ pledged supplementary lending ” program , has also started lending directly to banks that have promised to use the funds for social housing construction .
are not to be offered nato membership is concern about russia the greatest cause countries -- ukraine , estonia , latvia and lithuania -- . furthermore , as demonstrates the army of russian disastrous misadventure in che@@ ch@@ n@@ ya , russia is too weak . would be a strong argument in favor of doing so if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage revival of an imperial foreign policy then , and be stronger will be one day russia . . but more peaceful russian foreign policy , nato expansion is not likely . russia makes reconstructing russian military power for a rallying point an enormous stake in the future that extending alliance membership to central europe will isolate their country from europe , strengthen russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and , by appearing to threaten russia , i are afraid . .
but that would presuppose a small gesture towards the palestinians , whom israelis regard as being so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement seems possible . israel ’s leaders seem intent on gaining time both tactically , by resisting the soft pressure of us president barack obama ’s administration , and strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers such as china play an increasingly important role . however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers that world . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel will be able to depend only on its comparative merits in the eyes of cynical , realistic actors who will judge it solely on the basis of their own national interests . israel may be “ of europe , ” and its main ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders must start thinking of how their country can thrive in a post-western world .
the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” typically comes later , if and when the president has enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do not trump reality . he can not find enough spending to cut ( the magic asterisk has disappeared up the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; the acceleration in gdp is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario having vanished ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit in the laffer hat ) . the audience is now was the plan the budget deficit losing tax revenue , i told . . the performer explains that the deficit is all the fault of congress for not cutting spending and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the budget deficit because “ congress ca n’t spend money it does n’t have . ” works either , of course is this trick .
there is also to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is the european flag is a urgent need . , but . one of us launched the idea that we houses , factories , and offices display the flag . starting on march 21 for this reason . we would like to believe that the coming european elections will herald a new spring for the european project , and the spring of the first day is march 21 . . the death of patron saint of europe , benedict is the anniversary . , march 21 also . was a stirring call for tolerance and piety to nihilism and barbarism the face rebuild sense of community in one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire
this fits into a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds are immediately classified as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic way , while violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies are treated as an “ isolated incident . ” but there is nothing such incidents isolated . the toll of death from terrorist attacks associated with groups or individuals far-right has been steadily increased since 2014 according to the global terrorism index 2018 . parameters have carried out attacks far more than islamists in the states of united in norway , of which i am one of the few lucky survivors , terrorist attack inspired by 2011 . was directly . is the attack in christchurch .
the euro , the european currency single included the fruit of the franco-german partnership . after its birth in 1999 , the german government , by now to again with a lower european , contented herself , berlin , i relocated . that although to be matched by imagination is still german power . , unassuming modest is firmly in the past . . the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as founding fathers of the european project is a fading memory , because germany has yet to generate a comparably robust strategy for reviving the eu ’s prospects and popularity . it lacks a vision of where beleaguered europe should be heading , indisputably the strongest and most dependable of the 28 member countries .
china has been engaged in what might be called “ vendor finance , ” providing the money that helps finance the huge us fiscal and trade deficits , allowing americans to buy more goods than they sell . but this is a peculiar arrangement : a relatively poor country is helping to finance america ’s war on iraq , as well as a massive tax cut for the richest people in the world ’s richest country , while huge needs at home imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment . in fact , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china must stimulate consumption . with a savings rate in excess of 40 % , china . is increasingly affected by the world rest . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings .
but selling to poor consumers for shampoo five-rupee sac@@ he@@ ts is considered clever marketing after all , motivated more by profit than compassion is financed by investors looking for returns on their capital . , both activities . is clearly less than the other acceptable , but one . one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor appears if not immoral , unseemly ; attracts no attention to a cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturer . had succeeded by genuine need to meeting , but pmfis .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a fast-growing range of tasks , including some that require complex cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . both the quantity and quality of employment effects raised serious concerns not surprisingly ; this process has outpaced the expectations of experts . to listen to president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for the loss of manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that the possible technological displacement of workers is “ not even on [ the administration ’s ] radar screen . ” among economists , however , the consensus is that about 80 % of the loss in us manufacturing jobs over the last three decades was a result of labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade coming a distant second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could do no wrong in economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic across a broad range of high-tech precision and mass-production industries manufacturing tradable goods . they also had significantly outperformed the expected growth of european economies since reconstruction began after world war ii saw an economy . . they had growing considerably faster than north atlantic economies for an economy , and they saw . the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed to be that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would proceed .
amos oz , one of israel 's best known writers , claims that the current palestinian-israeli war is actually two wars : an " unjust " war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an " arab palestine , " and the palestinian people 's " just " war for an independent state worthy of the name . in the east war , to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and the jewish settlements located there , and there to defend its right to exist . is also fighting . , israel . 3@@ 000 people live in the neighborhoods of jerusalem that extend beyond the pre-1967 border of the old , divided jerusalem in the west bank and gaza . are about 2@@ 20 million . , there . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased in only a few of the 144 settlements , and there are over 7,000 settlers in the gaza strip alone , in 16 communities occupying 20 % of an impoverished land already suffering one of the highest population densities in the world . expanding settlements for support of israeli state is substantial .
the market ’s reaction was to send spanish government bond rates even higher . europeans have not over the last year , he remained inactive . some perceptions contrary . they their touch have lost . , but . like aging magicians , they still try tricks that used to impress , but that fail to deliver results – or , worse , prove counterproductive . spain suffers a rise of seemingly irresistible in borrowing costs , , and to a lesser extent italy , ; meanwhile financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues .
a security balance stable will not be easy with by territorial disputes and historical tensions asia riven . but what in place can help levers is there . in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration was considering how to respond to china ’s increasing economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given the enduring desire of china ’s neighbors to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be called “ integrate and insure . ”
as politicians make offers of representation and citizens respond , i 'm formed . is interests and identities . see themselves as part of something like a white identity movement persuading some americans . succeeded is undoubtedly trump , for example , . but that identity – and the way its adherents frame their interests – could change again . the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” was always misleading . farage did not bring all by himself brexit .
they will facilitate stimulate innovation ecosystems development network with interactions . to evolve into companies that offer a range of health-care solutions enable pharmaceutical companies . will expand beyond markets and traditional products . these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that support personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ” maximizing the impact of this external web of relationships and managing complexities will demand new powers over these great science although the size of many r & d organizations is bound to be reduced by such reforms . will be an additional , but welcome , developing and rewarding who possess such skills , employees .
could ever be one true model that works best in all contexts in which , the kind of science is not economics . the point is not “ to reach a consensus about which model is right , ” as romer puts it , but to figure out which model applies best in a given setting . remain a craft , not a science , the choice has to real time be made . especially when will doing that . because it is man-made and hence almost infinitely malleable , it means from the physical world . is the world of social . so , unlike models with better ones , but by expanding its library of models , with each shedding light on a different social contingency replacing old . is therefore not economics advances . , the natural sciences .
compared to one-half in india , only third of total employment in china the agricultural sector accounts , today . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market , centered on the easing of outdated and complicated employment laws . the legal protections of workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those of most developed countries , as well as china , with mandated requirements rising as the number of employees increases . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations deter indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that the indian government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . equally important , indian workers – especially young people – need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously .
the new policy explicitly encourages chinese enterprises to work with local businesses in sectors like logistics , electricity , and information systems , and it promotes interaction among business , community , and government leaders . chinese funding , credits , and insurance availability to investors expands is equally important as the policy . the approach of holistic is something new for china taken together . despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments the region appear keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with changes of their own . for example , brazil ’s government has promoted an “ investment partnerships program ” to coordinate investments in the finance and transportation infrastructure sectors .
whether china has succeeded is the test of acid . will be provided by the gdp composition . but the key word here is “ eventually . ” it expect significant shifts in aggregate demand the sources of major is too early . . it in the potential determinants of chinese consumption , i examine trends . is very important . for now . from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , especially given accelerated growth in china ’s services sector – one of the key building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing .
grants shape trade policy trump considerable power . to be sure , so one can not ignore the possibility that he will pursue protectionist measures to appease his supporters . there 's a return to closed borders the us no broad-based support but . europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the direction of opposite . china and other emerging markets eu manufacturing exports are now the us almost double , and european multinationals also have large stakes in the chinese economy . many europeans see trade as an opportunity , rather than as a threat to jobs ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers show little appetite for more protectionism .
$ 19 million tune was almost visible to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin , . at the time he took the job . maintained a $ 10 million annual contract with manafort had previously . is who is subject to us sanctions , deripaska . people who displease him deal gently . is not known as russian oligarchs of other . after he took the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based employee , “ how do we use [ this ] to get whole ? ” about what was going on in the trump campaign , brief deripaska . offered is also manafort .
kyiv – from snowy kyiv , i have watched the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . right to be proud of their desire to despotic governments overthrow is tunisians and egyptians . but that pride is tempered by pragmatism , because a change of regime is only the first step in establishing a democracy backed by the rule of law , i hope who revolution led peaceful , someone . democratic revolutions can be betrayed , and normality returns after revolutionary euphoria fades , my country , ukraine , is now . . the first of ukraine ’s lessons for egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not a democracy make .
increasingly , we our smar@@ t@@ phones , and board airplanes , purchases pay use our fingerprints . that will only its legitimate owner work , it is obvious . , the protection against theft ? can protect against theft of our identities themselves above all biometrics . that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , a multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and face ) affecting more than one billion indians . known with saving the indian government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicate and false identities in government beneficiary lists as a@@ ad@@ ha@@ ar , credits is the chairman of infosys who left his job to create the system , nandan nilekani .
pittsburgh – almost six months ago , at a moment of great alarm about the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for a historic summit in london . their collective commitments the world helped to calm nerves . to stimulate , regulate and restructure global economic activity . that spurred the london summit , the problems many remain real . anxiety levels may have come down , in board rooms and stock markets , but the daily drama for survival continues . indeed , for many people it has deepened , in the villages and streets of the world ’s least-developed countries – particularly in africa . in the developing world for a long time to come , the direct and indirect effects of the mel@@ tdown will be felt . , i predict . is the united nations and the world bank .
who of the catastrophes that are yet to come has intimate is the look of someone . were ? or was she just the most beautiful girl at the party – the one an avid adolescent had asked to dance , and then held on tightly ? is now collectively writing a novel of new is the world . we spoke of the forces that might be able to stand up to the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump , and distilled the tragic and this process the elements of comic . who won the election with the knowledge that , in terms of total votes , it is they , the city poured not in the country . is the first .
of heart has changed . is perhaps simpson . perhaps he with what he had done and who he was , repented , and wanted to repair some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects that he had caused , i come myself . has traveled his own road . . however , the next generation has bipartisan statesmen acclaiming them and who misbehave to important positions of high trust even in that case . and it ’s not as though congressional republicans think they owe enough to simpson for him to swing a single vote in either chamber of the legislature . obama officials assured me that simpson had , indeed , had a change of heart ; that he was a smart man with a sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he could sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( even though he could not sway actual legislators ) ; and that he would be a genuine asset to the substantive work of the commission .
the average number of live births per woman over her lifetime is that demographers call the fertility rate of total . a population if the tfr is at the replacement rate , which is a little above 2.3 for the world as a whole , and somewhat lower , at 2.1 , for developed countries , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates , i 'm stable . is said . in the long run . stands well below replacement levels , countries of most developed tfr now . some countries , including and japan 's germany , produce less than 1.4 children per woman , but is around 1.74 in the oecd average . however , the declines of tfr in recent years have been in developing countries .
there services worldwide gsm was more than a billion subscribers . by 2004 . to achieve was much worse . , and the global reach of the regulation in the manufacture of handsets and network hardware implied huge economies of scale . . many regulations play the role of standard-setting . there three important channels through which regulation can benefit an economy are , contrary to regulation is inevitably bad for business , the simplistic view . . one the growing role illustrated by the gsm standard is the market market . .
laguna beach – when i consider the prospects for the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the extent to which the world has collectively placed a huge bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth , the avoidance of policy mistakes , and the prevention of market accidents . though all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of the bet – more inclusive global growth – anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with a 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also assumes china ’s annual growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thereby enabling the risks posed by pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to be gradually defused , even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to shift from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . to escape the mire of low growth and avoid deflation , which , by impelling households and businesses to postpone purchasing decisions , would undermine already weak economic performance , and japan will be able . is . is another , more uncertain assumption underpinning the bet on more inclusive growth .
clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment proceedings ended . was a mistake impeachment , most americans thought . was the opposite its main impact on presidential power , but the presidency would damage the clinton impeachment . republicans eventually agreed with democrats that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , the independent counsel whose investigations of clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier eventually led him to lewinsky . the two parties allowed the independent counsel statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later .
most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party in order to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) , which was at the forefront of the brexit campaign . introduction leaders trying to save their own skins by ramping up criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular been have long . or failed policies to be sure . that while causing the voters to direct their opposition against the eu itself , put policies ideas out of reach . but they did not lose sight of the benefits of membership , though the establishment parties criticized the eu , for the most part . indeed , in the uk referendum , both major parties backed the “ remain ” campaign , though they were split internally .
and the slack pick are not likely . , other emerging economies . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging aid player , ” is now in economic and political crisis , as is south africa . in the advanced countries that are hampering flows of investment and finance to the developing world , new financial regulations compounded for developing countries . , i are . is these challenges . been disastrous for most of the developing world , as nobel laureate angus deaton has demonstrated , , and the incomes of developing-economy is a global demand . to cap it all off , adopted by major economies for the expansionary monetary policies are fueling instability .
previously attacked military bases suspected of housing nuclear assets , and she has a large nuclear weapons program . , pakistan . though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear breach , and the government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about the future . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is much smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern . in the event of the regime ’s collapse – a distinct possibility – it would be difficult to prevent the diversion of its assets , or even the use of its weapons . iran at least the neighbors compared seems relatively stable . for its part .
but it was negotiated by six leading powers and endorsed by the united nations , this was not a deal of us-iran . those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any us attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , using access to dollar clearing systems as a foreign-policy tool – would be countered by coordinated action . for the uk in particular , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with us foreign policy in a way that some devotees of our “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . to damage american business is clearly bad news was created by a hoax of chinese . is who purports to believe global warming . but climate change tackle is global momentum . can and must be maintained .
paradoxically , in the pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by conservatives and hardliners , actually fits into the region better than the current one . authoritarian hardliners are also ruled by other states of arab , saudi arabia . this would make reform-oriented leadership resurgence in iran extremely difficult . the most likely scenario of both dynamics is a combination . of course . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments hew more closely to the reform-oriented path , it should be clear to all that the diplomatic work with regard to iran is far from complete .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister giulio tremonti famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian banks and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb npls were deemed unnecessary . italy 's no longer that happy sa@@ vers in prosperous banks imagined land ten years later . dented the individual savings rate , while banks no longer have the resources to provide peace of mind to many retail investors , whose trust has been severely eroded is the economic malaise of the recession of prolonged . the shareholders took the hit , and banks and savers the pact of implicit was broken .
are the attitude of the church 's towards democracy wary , and are allergic to its aggressive presence in politics is many poles . it that for many the ex-communists , in opposing the church , pose as defenders of the liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal , it 's a sad paradox . . kwasniewski ’s strategy of seduction appealed to large numbers of the young and the middle class but most of all to peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland 's growing economy . so who the votes of the past saddled rode into force . spoke a lot about the future . this link will kwasniewski presidency dog .
obstacles remain , but been reached on the need to assist smallholders . perhaps the main risk is that the “ aid bureaucracies ” now trip over each other to try to get their hands on the $ 20 billion , so that much of it gets taken up by meetings , expert consultations , overhead , reports , and further meetings . “ partnerships ” of donors can become an expensive end in themselves , merely delaying real action . if donor governments really want results , they should take the money out of the hands of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two places , the most logical being the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . would have several billion dollars account in these agencies one or both
after all , the economies of brics are the most important source of future global growth is likely . . they represent more than a quarter of the earth ’s landmass , over 41 % of its population , almost 25 % of world gdp , and nearly half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . the brics , in fact , might also be dubbed the r-5 , after its members ’ currencies – the real , ruble , rupee , renminbi , and rand . the leaders will discuss the creation of joint institutions , particularly a common development bank that can help to mobilize savings between the countries at the new delhi summit . currently , the brics countries constitute a loose , informal bloc .
to reassure voters that their economic future is bright in the conversation must be changed on the contrary . as it stands , that their incomes have been falling for the last five years , there are like in europe , their counterparts elsewhere . , the british . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear competition for jobs – a sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . the key difference in the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters despite rapid economic growth ( more than 3 % annually , the highest rate in the eu ) . the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling an increase in real incomes must be and may between now . .
it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long and variable lags . ” thus , in order to have reached the effect of full , policies aimed at boosting employment by the end of , say , this calendar year . some countries – china , for example – did , indeed , implement such job-creation policies a year ago and are already seeing the benefits . around 10 % remains so unemployment . , and others , like the united states , did not . this is not to say that the obama administration did not try to boost employment .
sectors with a higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example – have much higher r & d costs than the shoe sector , so manufacturing these goods on an assembly line in a low-cost country is probably not very costly in comparison to r & d and other intangible costs . for more advanced goods , the eu value added ( if the intangible part of the production process is in europe ) is quite high . imposing trade defense against such goods , even if legally warranted , create the european companies globalized problems is likely . for ensuring that companies do not engage in anti-competitive behavior , or receive trade-distorting subsidies , i be paid . is these problems . , many say . but , even if as supposed , the measures worked . , the majority of trade defense measures not directed against practices of anti-competitive business are probably better . .
do the thing of right for motivating companies is difficult more . as america 's recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to profits , and it is only the conscience of those who run the corporation . ; companies do n't have a conscience after all . what produce a defective , and particularly an unsafe product , , firms are held liable for the consequences makes sure . is america 's legal system . we all that our legal system has provided corporations with incentives to pay attention to the safety of what they produce , i benefit telling you . , firms to assess the safety of their product is better than consumers . . similarly , environmental laws make firms liable for their toxic wastes , and many countries , including the us , have enshrined the principle that " polluters pay , " that is , companies must pay for the damage they cause .
we do not to for such a mission , i look far . , have . in europe , and even in china has been made . to combat climate change acting on a massive scale . has there little debate such been us , why ? because who climate change reject science oppose such discussions , is it ? because it would legitimize an economically activist state , i accepting . , do they deny science . , or ?
once again , vote to the treaty of nice for yes or no poised is irish . that treaty what is forgotten ? well , it reached and some practical problems by eu heads of state and government that seek to slither around for those all-too-frequent late-night compromises is one . . four years ago , because it contains , among other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and power sharing among eu institutions that must be firmly in place before the union can admit new members is important . nice reached . its cornerstone is the treaty of nice . , and the most important item is on the european agenda . .
with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the patterns of growth that occurred over the last half-century were little understood and rarely ( if ever ) forecast by economists . at the very moment in the 1960s when asia 's tiger economies were beginning to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal , wrote his the asian drama to diagnose the causes of asian poverty and to explain why its poverty appeared to be ineradicable . simultaneous to this , a consensus of strong developed among economists and policymakers that favored the import substitution policies then being pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt and turkey . after beggaring their adherents , these policies are now utterly discredited . got things about the one of almost no , but economists got so much wrong .
postponed for june 2006 , legislative elections initially planned first to february 2007 , and later , by presidential decree , to june 2007 , but there were the presidential elections the possibility almost daily discussions being postponed indefinitely , two weeks ago . it be fair , there will a presidential election be appears . ? the voting cards received was a month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who had registered . on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” demonstration by opposition parties was brutally repressed by the police and three presidential candidates were arrested for the day .
princeton -- intellectual minefield is -- genetics and intelligence intersection . harvard ’s former president larry summers touched off one explosion in 2005 when he tentatively suggested a genetic explanation for the difficulty his university had in recruiting female professors in math and physics . ( he did not suggest that men are on average more gifted in these fields than women , but that there is some reason for believing that men are more likely than women to be found at both the upper and lower ends of the spectrum of abilities in these fields – and harvard , of course , only appoints people at the extreme upper end . ) predictable results into the same minefield is one of our time scientists most eminent . to promote his memoir , avoid boring people and other lessons from a life in science , listening to the structure dna his description in october .
china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . the direction of other state visits have uneven been . mugabe ’s first visit to china was in 1980 , just six months after independence ; he made 13 more during his tenure , and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials were even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s reign . most recently in , ken@@ yan presidents may during the same period , just six times , china traveled . . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their visits to press for trade and military cooperation , and likely engaged directly with private chinese companies .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . but the crisis can also be tracked by an irreversible metric : the passage of time missing out on an education . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , roughly half are under the age of 18 , meaning that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose out on a future as well . school-age children form a large share of the world ’s displaced population . at the end of 2016 , there were an estimated 11.6 million refugees experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : they have been away from their homes for more than five years and have no “ immediate prospects ” of return .
pleads guilty to which , how are these political crimes . , but ? they 're misdemeanors in my view . against them you have to set what former treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden glove ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years at the fed . the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stop the stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done more to stop the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . here , greenspan holds his ground , and pleads not guilty .
if we avoid repeating the scenes of ugliest wish , and it 's better . than a sinister caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles , the bds movement is nothing better . is . is the truth . it is a campaign whose instigators have no aim other than to discriminate against , delegitimize , and vilify an israel that in their mind never stopped wearing its yellow star . to activists of good faith who may have been taken in by duplicitous representations of the movement , i would say only that there are too many noble causes in need of assistance to allow oneself to be enlisted in a dubious one . those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving the women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christians and arab democrats , and , of course , striving for a just peace between israelis and palestinians .
it is too soon to discount genetics , however , because the science of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms for turning genes on and off , thus changing the way a cell develops without altering the genetic code – is gaining traction . indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop by reprogramming dna and cells without altering their genetic structure . in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that almost any cell in the body contains the complete dna code enabled him to create a tadpole by cloning an adult frog . in mice into regressing to their immature state , forming stem cells found a way to complex adult cells trick . was more than four decades later in 2006 in 2006 . before this , stem cells – which can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaged tissue – could be taken only from early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy .
the refugees could to work or study arrive in europe healthy and ready . , and be prioritized and processed in a regular manner could be the claims . . can not managed the mediterranean crisis the adri@@ ft and patrolling its waters the costs of financial are exorbitant . 's inexcusable for the lives of the loss but we do not have to wait until the root causes of displacement – state failure and civil war – are addressed .
according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 in 1990 dollars , which was 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . that is roughly the same gap that existed between the us and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that are also among the 13 successful economies studied by the growth commission . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s average annual growth rate soared to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between the four nies and the us enabled the nies to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % -9.2 % for 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should be a similar 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . to the market-oriented reforms deepen , address various structural problems , and depending to its comparative advantages , develop its economy , realize its potential growth as a hundreds of china needs . .
the signatories agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and their habitats , and to use biological resources ( e.g. , forests ) in a sustainable manner . in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went further , committing to “ a significant reduction in the current rate of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , biological diversity convention remains essentially unknown , un-championed , and unfulfilled . that neglect is a tragedy of human . for a very low cash outlay – and perhaps none at all on balance – we could conserve nature and thus protect the basis of our own lives and livelihoods .
it is because netanyahu is driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that he might be amenable to a fundamental change in his position on palestine , provided obama makes visible headway in his drive to stop iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that existential threat that would pave the way to the creation of a palestinian state . netanyahu also knows that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . as john kerry , the chairman of the us senate ’s foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process is not a one way street ” in which the onus is put exclusively on israel . it be seen if will respond the way obama expects , and in its midst , the powerful non-state agents as he@@ z@@ l remains .
just as the imemo economists predicted , most ( 66 % ) of those who answered this question in moscow thought it was unfair . but there was a surprise : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . so we whether , given the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets there had become more negative , or whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today , he decided last year . . we in the two cities , the questionnaire of identical . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january .
like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out the southern “ emerging ” economies . starkly different is each case prognoses . in the former version , interest rates converge and the default risk is nil , because , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the federal reserve does in the us , the euro becomes “ local currency . ” how we hear about the local-currency debt of sovereign restructurings , i do . and often ? in the latter version of the eurozone , there is differential credit risk and , ultimately , bank runs , de-euroization , and default : the common currency is at odds with the needs of the member states .
if they win the presidency again in 2020 , you have a chance of creating a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court that may last for decades , especially . is therefore republicans . that can as that were dealt a devastating blow by the 2010 citizens united decision , the campaign-finance limits , erode democratic checks , majority . in a 5-4 majority , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” and thus that any limits on the amount of money corporations could spend on political campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of expression . the senate of republican obstructionism has also the federal judiciary other levels put in risk . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in the us district and circuit courts were filled fell to its lowest point in 50 years .
calderon ’s task will not be easy . lopez obrador and his supporters can work relentlessly to thwart his plans be expected . . they 're the government derail is unlikely . , but . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also evident elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are clearly less vulnerable to the type of populist rule we ’ve seen in venezuela and bolivia .
there is still time to react – by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies – but that time is limited and the clock is ticking . the end of the current political cycle and a new one beginning will be essential . will be next year . there will a new european commission the year end , and be a new german government 's election . . it is here that political leaders should devote their efforts . no one wants the eu to fail because of its citizens ’ disaffection .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . i 'm prime minister is to find a way to accelerate our already steady economic growth in sri lanka . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambitions the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power or – in earlier decades – cheered on the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today , on the tools and policies that have helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out , political assaults of fierce of poverty is we asians . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues .
here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in . widely unnoticed , iraqi sunni and shia centralists have leaves sectarian tensions behind that , form a parliamentary platform . managed in the last few months . . joined their ranks have is more than a hundred followers of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others . this supra-sectarian platform calls for a central government administration of iraq ’s natural resources and the postponement of the looming referendum to settle the status of the city of kirkuk . noteworthy is is within the government change .
it seems has not rousseau and danton the land vanished , political fervor . are not politics hopeless is french . ; so the truth must lie elsewhere . that the french will never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization or no globalization , the fact of a matter may be made . expect than from an integrated europe or the boundless world from their government is still the french . yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state ( they are not the only ones ) .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectation and ambition running at an all-time low . but it does not have to be like this : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . on the route to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that prevents dangerous climate change , defined as global warming of more than two degrees celsius , the staging post is the talks of warsaw . would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in poverty as a result of more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms , failure . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem .
in a march 2015 letter to the g-20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders irreversible and catastrophic damage to the environment in megaprojects risks , ramping investment , i warned . . “ each year , we are already consuming about one-and-a-half planets ’ worth of resources , ” the authors explained . “ infrastructure choices need to be made to alleviate rather than exacerbate this situation . ” similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change cautions that “ infrastructure developments and long-lived products that lock societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive emissions pathways may be difficult or very costly to change . ” and , indeed , the g-20 has put in place few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria for the “ wish list ” of mega-projects that each member country will submit to its summit in turkey in november .
for example , the fed has pledged to keep interest rates low at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that has arguably lowered long-term borrowing costs . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , announced rates of short-term interest forward guidance . there are the favor of many arguments although the effect of such interest-rate guidance on the economy can not be determined without additional data . perhaps the most telling recent example of a central bank using forward guidance effectively was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . that pledge alone stabilized borrowing costs and eurozone countries struggling interest-rate spreads reduced .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . yet , just as the us adopted a “ bomb and talk ” approach with the serbs during the dénouement of the bosnian war , america must be willing to “ sanction and talk ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater space for an eventual diplomatic strategy . first , putting diplomats on the ground establishing diplomatic relations with iran should consider the us . this would not be an easy process , and could well meet considerable iranian resistance . but the iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of its main interlocutor in talks on its nuclear program , the sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and restoring iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communications and close the 444-day chapter of 1979-1981 .
anyone watching the ipl , however , might be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of the game , is actually an american game deliberately rediscovered by the indians . the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world tournaments have followed suit . is other countries . it signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india ; ip@@ l represented more than a sports league to keen observers . . in the ipl ’s glitz , glamour , and excess lay an antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that had produced economic stagnation in india in the past . here what emulate the entrepreneurial energies shown by owners , promoters , players , and fans and open businesses for new vistas was a meeting . .
this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly " modern " notion , modernity in romania goes only skin deep . at the 20th century ’s close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) appears more like a ' neo-feudal ' state than a modern society . for here of the group in which one belongs , but privileges that are granted even individuals struggle , groups . state banks , state approved public societies ( trade unions , for example ) , large state enterprises , act little differently in romania today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe . at the whim of the state , they have their posts , or can be exonerated from paying taxes . for example and work made unchallengeable by law .
on the other hand , diplomatic means may bring about the release of the israeli soldier and put a stop to the firing of qassam rockets from gaza into israel – a daily occurrence that has challenged the credibility of the new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . but the fundamental problem is that , until now , at every historical juncture , the palestinians refused to accept a compromise and consequently failed in nation-building . they called for two states the establishments in british palestine refused the un plan . in 1947 . in 1993 , after the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of the palestinian refugees . it was this failure to power , that brought them . .
in asia , indonesia may look “ european ” in its obama craze , but it essentially constitutes an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing . the growing possibility of an obama victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension is awaiting . is for very different reasons , and otherwise . japanese favor continuity over change tend for example . in their mind , the hard power of the united states is more important than its soft power , and their vision of an america “ bound to lead ” is largely unchanged . the us the counterweight of strategic needed to balance china is above all . for them .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump were hurling kindergarten insults at each other – “ rocket man is on a suicide mission , ” said trump of kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” kim retorted – while threatening to reduce east asia to a post-atomic wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are to meet by may . eager to talk directly to trump and denuclearize willing , kim has agreed . but optimism about the events turn must be tempered with cautious realism . north korea is the nuclear problem from hell .
nepad , the new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent and appropriate standards of economic and political development throughout the continent , has been at the core of this policy . despite its domestic problems and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa is still perceived as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . in a global some instances , such powers seek seek an constructive effective regional role . limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia , and they tend to have proactive and assertive foreign policies and aspire to more than the middle-power status . seeks a role of more influential wider reinforced by its obvious standing as a regional hegemon , south africa .
it would bring the eu to our three borders , even as we , too , aspire to join one day , and aspires to the european union join . . to present itself as a regional broker is a opportunity . has never missed . , turkey . turkey proposed the black sea cooperation immediately after the collapse of the soviet union . turkey took the job of syria in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict , and to falter , mediate a middle east peace settlement is the american-led effort . began . . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgia crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward once again to take a leadership role in the caucasus .
is the taliban back to power bringing , growing that when foreign troops leave , afghanistan will again descend into civil war across the region that is why “ bringing the troops home early ” has become the prime objective of western politicians who are engaged in the region . to get out before the bloodletting starts again in earnest needs the west . we have not seen the last of al qaeda or the taliban is . is my fear . as a neighboring country , india would face disturbing consequences if they returned to power in afghanistan , as would iran , which would not sit idly by if sectarian strife intensified and the shia became targets of a resurgent taliban .
and governments must respond to the banks ’ threats by declaring their willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly . a market economy must profit loss and the economic principle rest . is no market economy is law that applies equally to all an economy with neither bankruptcies nor a rule . should apply to banks as well is all companies of other valid . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ loans to non-financial companies , as well as private customers ’ current , fixed-term , and savings deposits , by reforming insolvency laws .
growing market through big banks now implicitly backed by the state in both the us and europe is from emerging market . but the gross flow of capital . from the perspective of international investors , banks that are “ too big to fail ” are the perfect places to park their reserves – as long as the sovereign in question remains solvent . the funds do , but what will these banks ? when a similar issued emerged in the 1970 ’s – the so-called “ recycling of oil surpluses ” – banks in western financial centers extended loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was not a good idea , as it led to a massive ( for the time ) debt crisis in 1982 .
when they give way , disease , despair and death rush in . they signify a deeper malaise ; but more than a health crisis is the transition plagues . . the fact that these diseases that the fortunate bear some moral responsibility for the welfare of the poor and sick , and merely consider the economic consequences of the plagues of transition can spread are infectious is so put aside . the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat to african development . ” companies in south africa losing to aids for workers so many stagger .
but while it would be a strategic error for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made strategic errors before . that how are so critical hash worried about turkey and the eu is . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . be delivered this year should be visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , . insists . , turkey . but , with turkey having so far failed to meet the agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorism legislation , that may not happen – an outcome made even more likely by the coup attempt .
as long as rejected their own a nation-state for the palestinians , there will be conflict . has enthusiastically jewish settlements of the expansion in occupied west bank supported , net@@ ah@@ u over the past 13 years . the settlements are a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state as he well knows . moreover , during the recent election campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected , he would prevent the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ controlling the entire area . ” we should his word take him .
it from contracting in the early stages of the great depression , prevent the supply of money . had failed . . it allowed the banking system to collapse , its responsibilities as an emergency lender heedless . cooperate the reserve banks ' failure prevented effective action when financial stability hung in 1933 in the balance . given such incompetence , it were far-reaching subsequent reforms is not surprising . . but these reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today 's proposed changes : fewer limits on policy makers ' discretion , more power to the board , and a larger role for the new york fed , all to enable the federal reserve system to react more quickly and robustly in a crisis .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that the monetary-policy “ doves , ” who had forecast low inflation in the united states , have gotten the better of the “ hawks , ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , would unleash faster price growth . was misleading correct , for it failed to mention why there is so little inflation in the us today is the report . just lucky , or , do@@ ves were . ? produced so little growth so many reserves has never pumped tri@@ lli@@ ons of dollars . is the us federal reserve board . neither the hawks nor the doves ( nor anyone else ) expected that .
family planning deaths from unsafe abortions number by reducing the rate of unwanted pregnancies . this is not for mothers , only good . . to decrease newborn and child death rates , spacing out births have been shown . , and curbing unwanted pregnancies , reducing high-risk pregnancies . . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 child deaths annually . moreover , cutting birth rates , which are very high in many lmics , would help to reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs of maternal and newborn care and immunization .
under their wahhabi brand of islam criticism of a barrage the saudis meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human rights record – including the denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . the kingdom its enemies taking the fight is against this background . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but his son , prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much of the power . as minister of defense , mohammad has continued the saudi policy of backing anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a war on pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at an enormous humanitarian cost ) .
both yes and no is the question of first the answer . eliminate the possibility of the country again becoming a haven for terrorists as a result from afghanistan has failed . is the us . are a clear recognition of this , the ongoing peace talks with the taliban and the impending reduction of the us military presence in the country . to declare an end to the longest international conflict in us history before the 2020 presidential election , and is war@@ -@@ tired of the public of american . the us made its initial core objectives many at the time of same .
the ability to apply their knowledge practically will earn emerging-market officials . the ebrd aims to support the training of a critical mass of experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that the certificate could become as respected as the qualification held by a chartered financial analyst or a member of the project management institute . just five months ago in london , we hosted a “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g-20 , and the united nations . we had plenty of experts – some 300 from the public and private sectors of 30 countries – attempting to provide an answer to a simple question : “ what would it take to double private infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ” one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” a benchmarking index created by the economist intelligence unit that assesses the capacity of emerging-market countries across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and the former soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps .
that the current ruling coalition in israel is incapable of doing the minimum required for peace , i have shown clearly . led us to george mitchell 's special . staked its reputation on getting israelis and palestinians to agree at least on security and borders is the administration of obama . are mixed , at best is the results . palestinians complied with all israeli and international requirements for security , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , which gives lip-service to the two-state solution , has yet to elucidate where israel ’s borders will be . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in occupied areas , in total violation of international law and the minimum requirements for peace detailed in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the quartet ( the us , un , european union , and russia ) .
then , contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly short-term investors from developed-country markets , begin to withdraw funds from other countries to cover losses they the crises originated where , he incurred in the economies . . the crises borders , affecting whole regions or emerging economies even the entire class spill with that . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt servicing in august 1982 sparked a region-wide debt crisis . in thailand in july 1997 with the baht collapse , and in the 1990s , asia was the same thing . . it after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign creditors , she became a crisis of emerging-economy in july 1998 . .
including international monetary fund in senior staff , prominent economists have become increasingly critical to o@@ da in recent years , as a result . shows that evidence a robust positive relationship points if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration but un research clearly . unfortunately , progress has because average financing for projects has fallen by more than two-thirds , i 'm modest at best , not least . despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness . the dilemma of development side is debt . the supplementary multilateral debt relief initiative , his extension joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries have made significant progress on debt debt over the last decade .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary elections for the 2012 presidential vote – which will , alas , continue to rage into the summer – must be a frightening display of what americans and their leaders do not know about foreign policy . debate after debate reveals the fact that none of the candidates seeking to challenge president barack obama is particularly interested in the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , especially those that do not involve us troops . seems to be the candidates strength a source still in the race , ignorance . some other candidates derision responded by making a few useful points about dealing with china , punctuated by a brief display of his own mastery of mandarin displayed real intellectual he@@ ft . . who soon ended his candidacy , huntsman disqualifying seems to have even known the chinese perspective .
i helped launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . a multi-@@ donor fund was established at the un , and a fund has so far businesses , the government of nigerian , and international donors mobilized $ 30 million . . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for the most at-risk and vulnerable children . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations by mobile telecommunications , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – to promote safe zones for education . the most at-risk girls in the first cohort has been relocated to government schools in the country of safer regions , and the first set of schools has now received funding .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) , they must address more than future targets for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions . they must also that climate change is already causing , address the harm to people and livelihoods . . following most powerful leader of iran the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , shift , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
officials to predict continued strong growth in 2011 , with higher production , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery , and government led the performance of favorable . was enacted in order to lock in this favorable outlook is the payroll tax rate by two percentage points a cut of one-year . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did n’t occur . the rise in food and energy prices outpaced the gain in nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while the continued fall in home prices reduced wealth for the majority of households . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just about 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter ’s 4 % increase .
instead , we are left with the usual microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment – that is , the use of big data to match people with the jobs they will need to remain consumers . again , we are told that future labor-market participants should be equipped with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help them jump from one automated workplace to another . in the case of education , the report calls on employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ” for example , it highlights miami dade college ’s “ programs in animation and game development , working with companies such as pixar animation studios and google . ” likewise , toyota “ has built its own advanced manufacturing technician program to provide a pathway for students seeking careers at the company . ”
we 've been in an un@@ controlled military escal@@ ation an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months for its commentators as in previous years . if this year 's selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year ’s united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger is actually growing , as is the number of malaria cases . moreover , the climate change of the intergovernmental panel according , the consequences of climate change are emerging much faster than anticipated .
québec will invest more than $ 3.3 billion toward this goal by 2020 , contributing to the growth of its economy . to support the creation of local sustainability plans across the region , the country of basque established a program called local agenda . all bas@@ que municipalities have adopted such plans areas such as mobility , waste management , and economic development more than 25,000 projects consisting as a result of the program . these local plans in the region with knowledge sharing among municipalities laying the foundation for further progress , driving sustainable development . are now . . south australia , meanwhile , has developed the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable energy investment in australia , enabling an increase in renewables ’ share in power generation from virtually zero in 2003 to almost 40 % today .
in the 1930 ’s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas the most were those with the least ability to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that remained on the gold standard . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in a desperate effort to do something – anything – to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . as they did little to arrest the downward spiral of output and prices , they were domestic reflationary measures a poor substitute . but trade restrictions . they banking systems of rickety did nothing . .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by the dysfunctional political systems of both sides . hostage of an impossible coalition and of a settlement movement of free-lance fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leadership is seriously compromised . his counterparts of palestinian are hardly in a better position . the peace process the oslo agreement began has meant the bitter deception . today moreover , come neither to represent the majority of palestinians nor to rule by democratic means has the authority of palestinian .
this has contributed to a growing sense of hopelessness – particularly among men – which has manifested in rising non-participation in the workforce , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . face political instability and policy dysfunction is often what experience high , countries and the economic inequality rising . growth suffers , and achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline the chances as policymaking becomes erratic , loses credibility , and becomes choked by gridlock . finds it increasingly difficult to do what is needed in which , a vicious circle is the result . but government intervention is crucial to tackle the problems facing developed-country workers today , which markets ca n’t address alone .
be a club , a clan , or a nation may be the tribe . before world war ii , football clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” while arsenal was “ irish . ” vestiges of these markings remain : ajax of amsterdam is still taunted by provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ” celtic being catholic and rangers protestant . , clubs , rangers and celtic , are still divided by religious affiliation and the gla@@ s@@ go@@ w . but or religion of a race of common is not essential .
it about spending more equitably is . in a new report to be launched at the imf-world bank spring meetings , save the children documents a glaring gap between health risks , which are heavily skewed toward the poorest children , and the benefits of public spending , are often skewed in favor of better-off households . this flies in the face of a central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from the targets would benefit from the fastest progress . in the language of the agenda , “ no one should be left behind . ” improve accountability for fulfilling that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to monitor and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are being narrowed could help the world bank .
has tripled while consumption of electricity is down by two-thirds from two decades ago is the price of rice . : suffice to illustrate the impact two examples . a depressed poor and country is now almost ten years old , my personal memories of north korea . deserted , illuminated by taking us from the official housing to the opera house for the cavalcade , only to return to darkness behind us was dark . is pyongyang , the capital , . with the same fervor when he entered the opera house that today marks public mourning of his death , kim jong-il was greeted . a time of somewhat optimistic took place in july 2002 . is my trip .
but consider other targets of gender is there . marriage and childbirth early the cycle is the best way to break to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to be full and equal members of society . they are likely to marry and bear children later if girls can stay in school longer and have decent job opportunities available to them after they graduate , but such a large change is not easy to achieve . for example , in rural india , well-paid back-office jobs recruiters visited three years a period randomly selected villages . aged women were likely to get married or give birth over this period 5-6 % less , and female employment rose .
vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered the north ’s furious response : “ we do not hide our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” the north was not interested in a dialogue aimed at a coerced “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ” the “ world knows too well that our country is neither libya nor iraq , which have met miserable fates . ” although trump distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that if north korea did not make a deal , it would indeed meet with libya ’s fate . choe son hui , vice minister of foreign affairs , replied by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington stuck to “ unlawful and outrageous ” belligerence .
the united states has accumulated foreign liabilities a stock of huge , equivalent to 25 % of its gdp after almost 15 years of unprecedented growth - interrupted only by a brief slowdown in 2000-2001 . us foreign debt is growing quickly with the current deficit account now 5 % of gdp exceeding . but must end , what can not sooner or last , and no country can accumulate debt forever . the us current account deficit today 's level third reached at current prices . , the rest of the world stopped in early 1985 . in which depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark , the dollar the value , the outcome was sudden fall .
princeton – the united states has moved from the high of a presidential election to the low of a political sex scandal in one short week . the election what only to be followed by the sadly familiar process of knocking heroes off their pedestals is best about the country . demonstrated for many americans . the election whereas the resignation of david petraeus as director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound , he brought the welcome and reassuring victory of barack obama . for many non-americans . in fact , both the election and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of a larger whole : an america that lives up to its promises . the election reminded many americans that the us is a country committed to and capable of progress – of moving forward toward an ideal vision .
coordination of international policy remains whatever small scope . , the first casualty would be . the second would the monetary system international be the world . in fact , one key reason for the creation of the international monetary fund was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit aim of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this how comes the swiss move is . it the franc has since started in august 2007 for the crisis , 8 % in real terms is true . .
the call by björn höcke , the afd ’s state leader in thuringia , for an “ 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the crimes of the nazi era , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposing of ” germany ’s integration minister of turkish origin “ in anatolia , ” repelled voters . likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in most of western germany . the second commonly cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength . the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at a record low , and gdp has grown by nearly 10 % since 2013 . it is clear why the inequality-focused outrage that has fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany , and add to that a functioning welfare system .
bloggers , independent publications were imposed . is enormous fines . china and turkey – both olympic-level jailers of journalists – have ramped up their repression in recent years . just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing punishment of individuals and online media for spreading so-called fake news and information that “ disrespects ” the state . the direction of same is trying to go . , we president donald card . his constant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies of the people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred label for the media : the lügenpresse ( lying press ) .
without the trade of the benefits , much of rural africa struggles at subsistence levels . that us aid is minimal is the truth . , bush might think that america is doing a lot to help overcome these problems . blair ’s africa commission , as well as the un millennium project , found that africa needs about $ 50 billion per year in aid by 2010 . america ’s fair share of the total is about $ 15 billion per year . yet official us aid to africa is only $ 3 billion per year , and much of that covers salaries for american consultants rather than investments in africa ’s needs .
israel , pakistan , the security council un is north north north korea . we may fast be approaching a tipping point is . is the danger . affect the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran is likely . , how the world north korea responds . maintaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers will be far more difficult — and the consequences of failure far more destructive . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) in un security council resolution 1718 , which condemns the test , demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency , and imposes a range of military , political , and economic sanctions .
industrialist wilbur ross , the commerce secretary-designate , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals . peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be the director of the national trade council – a new white house policy shop to be set up on a par with the national security council and the national economic council . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme china hawks . the titles of his two most recent books – death by china ( 2011 ) and crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – speak volumes about his tabloid-level biases . published on the trump campaign website that stretched any semblance of credibility by an economic-policy position paper co-authors were ross and navarro .
but the ecb did not committed to a stimulus of sustained , because policymakers constantly threatened to end qe . moved the rate euro-dollar exchange ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy decisions . just as the eurozone economy was slowing down , she withdrew q@@ e . declared victory . , the ecb . among the member states eurozone , the clash of interests is straightforward .
suggests that works well rarely importing laws and legal standards , experience . colonial rulers arrived for centuries western law . even after europe ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported in order to foster development in post-colonial countries . however , complied with only in form , these laws were imported were ignored . , not substance in many cases . led to only six criminal prosecutions in thirty years is when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , for example , american law 's antitrust .
but other firms have been accused of having more interest in developing a “ biobank ” of samples and data than in genetic testing . as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as the traditional business model of newspapers is to get revenue not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomics companies see the potential profit not from the consumers themselves but from the compiled databases – likely in the form of selling access to them . ” drug companies and other firms may well be eager to buy biobanks on which they can test their products for differential responses according to patients ’ genetic make-up . this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective treatments . there is certainly wrong with this nothing , but it does seem odd that customers are effectively paying a firm for the privilege of donating their dna to its database .
that it is worth its full value , european banks could greek government debt holding . and have fewer excuses to refuse greek bonds as collateral would be the european bank central . the question is whether the change in coupons – possibly coupled with an extension of maturities – would be enough to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . even with german-level interest rates , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still quite large , and far from today ’s deficit . and the psychological drag on and investment expectations would be with the face value of the debt unchanged .
these unstable economies , expansion was fiscal and monetary excessive . current-account deficits grew , frequent foreign-exchange crises resulting . made it governments reform-minded difficult to escape the trap of short-termism , and the long-term development of long-term development of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals . in this context , “ neoliberal ” reforms – such as the rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . a point case is venezuela .
the sexual gratification of consumers reveal cultural norms of restriction , transgression , and otherness produced , movies . porn is so specifically tuned to the tastes of consumers that shifts can indicate changes in a society almost immediately in fact . interestingly , the pornography of many purveyors initially would make their product more desirable , better quality video , i thought . . however , it high production values less popular were actually popular seems . . so a “ casual ” production style was adopted , similar to the design of worn and ripped jeans .
he never a country aspired , but . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra did – and still do . suited to a leader being is neither the clown nor the tycoon . is worse is the question . in politics , a role . have always played . , clowns .
a counter-movement provoke will new wealth creation driving the bulk . they 'll sacrificed the openness that made them the first place attractive if they price out or otherwise exclude those who earn less . so , if they want to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , they will need to come up with bold solutions . families built low-rent housing that allocated to the poor was . during in the early sixteenth century , a previous period of ur@@ -based dyna@@ mism . provides low-rent social housing to this day is still the fuggerei complex in augsburg , germany , a project of such .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the outset of the twentieth century , did not pander to the nearly half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , had exiled themselves from the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the proponents of french algeria that , in the end , he did not understand them . nor did pierre mendès france in the 1950s hesitate to tell the communists that he did n’t want their votes to support his government . france must now recall these great moments in its republican tradition and hold them up as a model for today ’s leaders . , for the moment , short supply is , a sort . is political courage for what will be needed to hold the territory that the republic nearly lost to the fn .
created a unique bond between our continents in those landings , and we know . that bond remains our security and our values preservation vital . but , after the cold war , many assumed that its institutional embodiment – the north atlantic treaty organization – would fade away . it because not just on common threats , but on shared ideals is based . of our bond , she did n't . . it could wane our desire for freedom , i fade away . could not be more . .
china does itself no favors by remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s when discussing this issue . the chinese have so many areas been so smart . . they devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . what does within the chinese state of its and religious cultural autonomy mean beyond the capacity of their political system ? i hope that this issue does not derail the chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to show the world that their country has emerged again as one of the world ’s leaders .
sarajevo – ever since the double disasters of 2016 – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election – there has been widespread anxiety about a “ global wave ” of populism , and hand-wringing over the follies of so-called direct democracy . in the uk , the electorate was asked to answer an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries were handed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , there have been calls to re-empower the “ gatekeepers , ” which is a polite way of saying that the unwashed masses should be kept as far away from political decision-making as possible . following most powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us interests a time would occur and this shift .
berkeley – to solve a problem , it is not enough to know what to do . you actually have to implement the solution – and be willing to change course if it turns out that you did not know quite as much as you thought . that is the message of two recent books that , together , tell you everything you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what can be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things have yet to be done . is the shifts and the shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who begins by cataloguing the major shifts that set the stage for the economic disaster that continues to shape the world today is the first book . his starting point is the huge rise in wealth among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % and the consequent pressure for people , governments , and companies to take on increasingly unsustainable levels of debt .
this has its benefits , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse the facts of a set of common is not based . . the second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . we acquire it via peer-to-peer sharing institutional gatekeepers , who were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards despite often-flawed execution , today receiving our information directly . such peer networks may elevate content based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or importance .
moreover , heavy tv viewing has the social fragmentation contributed . time to be spent together in the community , that used . the screen front is now spent alone . . robert putnam , the leading scholar of america ’s declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is the central explanation of the decline of “ social capital , ” the trust that binds communities together . americans simply they did a generation ago , trust less other . . social ato@@ mi@@ zation television-driven should not be understated , but many other factors are at work of course . .
in fact , this dangerous and irresponsible action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will be a peaceful nation once it grows strong . it flatly contradicts the repeated assurances of china ’s leaders that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . lurking behind china ’s ambition in space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the inner circles of the military high command , whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . the us space exploration for peaceful and scientific development enjoy a dominant role . continues with the collapse of the soviet communist regime . but since the 1980 ’s , the us has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts .
illegality and wrongdoing were artfully cloaked as an incontrovertible , science-tested natural law , " the survival of the fittest . " it must go through a period of abusive application every time a new , powerful scientific formulation appears . today , it is the turn of molecular genetics . everything to reside in the genes is said . is temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality or criminal behavior . distinguished scientists proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed on the dna molecule , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir , asserting that human beings are nothing but " programmed " entities .
around its picturesque squares , every cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne silent witness to the bloodletting that accompanied empires ’ rise and fall . the promise of europe 's hope is also possible . , but lviv . for five days each summer , it hosts the jazz festival alpha , sponsored by a russian bank , but lviv is a city of deeply anti-russian and pro-european . at a time when at war , ukraine and russia are still very much . , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some russians to celebrate world-class jazz pack the streets of l@@ vi@@ v . ukraine the west is very important . beyond its vital cultural life and geographical location .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge the full economic impact of president barack obama ’s implemented and proposed policies , but a preliminary read indicates limited short-term benefit at large long-term cost . to enact a vast agenda that would reengineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to health care , energy , and the distribution of income is a atmosphere of the crisis . is the administration . no surprise , and the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus details to congress with obama . several months later , only 4 % -6 % of the funds have been spent , and the federal government is brow-beating state governments – for example , demanding that california rescind a small pay cut for some unionized workers or lose $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of the administration ) .
there to build a wall in the mediterranean is no way . , as europeans well know . moreover , it the trump administration hardly upholding the post-war liberal international order talks is worried . . instead , it as what the us should look out only for itself is a zero-sum strategic competition . views the world . unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , all-out war risks will increase substantially . to be sure , the us says that it is stepping up its commitment to european security .
for three decades served both sides . is the model of old . china ’s growth was driven by labor-intensive exports made more competitive by transfers of technology and knowledge from the us and other western countries . this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and recently excessive – savings ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the economy , declining relative prices . benefited greatly . , the us consumer . accordingly , us employment put turn supporting higher incomes in america , too to higher-value-added activities .
revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense is europeans a profound change in us strategic priorities under president donald trump demands . this nato has seemed to be on its last legs is not the time of first . . focus on beyond the mission in afghanistan had little . came at the same conclusion before 2014 . was many . it breathed into nato for new life , when russia brought war to eastern ukraine annexed crimea . then came trump , whose administration has pulled the rug out from under europe ’s feet , abandoned american leadership within the rules-based international system , and pursued a nationalist , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy .
are unsustainable , the annual growth rate of its 2 % potential is currently the policies of fiscal-stimulus . . by 2020 , will run the stimulus , and will pull growth from 3 % to slightly below 2 % in a fiscal drag modest . second inflation is rising over target , and , because poorly timed was the stimulus . , the us economy overheating is now . . the us federal reserve will thus continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and that will likely push up short - and long-term interest rates as well as the us dollar . rising oil prices are contributing inflationary pressures of additional , and in other key economies , inflation is increasing . .
only themselves may blame british troops and . one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war was the increased drift sand . this is because the desert in the region normally has a crust , what arabs call " the desert skin , " consisting of sand and clay particles that have been baked together , or sintered , by the heat and sun . much like the hard ice crust that develops on snow in colder climates carry a person is strong enough . sometimes this crust . the sand particles are loose under the crust .
such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , other women reportedly mafia figures for sexual relationships had . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded ever since – a process that , like so much in american culture , has played out on television . popular series like “ the good wife ” show the pain and suffering of the political spouses who are expected to keep a stiff upper lip and a ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards . similarly , the series “ mad men , ” with its dashing advertising executives who consume women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs the emptiness and destructiveness of early-1960 ’s male sexual prerogative . this reassessment of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960 ’s has occurred in other arenas as well – reinforcing the transformation of kennedy ’s image from charming playboy to dangerously compulsive predator .
with good old commercial banks , which display an uncanny ability to create trouble by excessively risky gambling , whether in loans , the minimum market problems lie only with safeguard funds . is . is one major truth about the past year . the banks that lent huge sums , mostly unsecured , to ltcm , are the same ones that put in around $ 175 billion of short-term loans to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) , and then abruptly reversed gear , and yanked out tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 . amazingly , it had exposure of some $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , roughly 2 % of the bank 's total loan and credit exposure to just the one hedge fund , chase manhattan reports . ! how to manage them about crises of financial market is also stated by ltcm . when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the federal reserve did n't simply let " market forces " take their course .
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination is receiving considerable attention nowadays . have on the design , analysis , and evaluation of public-private partnerships , i made a large literature . , researchers , and business and government relations were created . even the world economic forum has been transformed into “ an international organization for public-private cooperation . ” private coordination has been the past 250 years the essence of economics of course . to rules , regulations , and other forms of government and societal intervention , incentive problems discovered all sorts of market failures . while adam smith started us on the optimistic belief that an invisible hand would take care of most coordination issues , in the intervening period .
the president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . while it is easy to be cynical ( some say the new program is just an excuse to cut funds from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and training is a good one . but while the trump administration has strengthened the us economy ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger is rather grim . for starters , a wide range of studies – from the work of the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson – find that institutions and political culture are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . if so , the economic costs could be considerable ; and political culture in the us may take years recovery from the trump of damage is inflicting on institutions . .
believe that can not at a rate above 2 % , maintain annual gdp growth without another sustained increase in oil prices . , russia , most economists now . but 2 % growth ( a respectable rate for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and could endanger domestic stability if jobs are lost in critical manufacturing sectors . is perplexed about counter the threat the slow growth posed how , putin . his main proposal so far has been a “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . this would russian products , guarantee russian jobs , capture regional markets . , and other links among former soviet countries , provide a russian influence , .
the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential horrors to be visible before the takeover – so that it can not be blamed . with national supervisors , who are often inclined to present a rosy picture of their countries ’ institutions , no longer in charge , we can hope that the assessment will be more robust than the earlier stress tests carried out under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . rebuild confidence failed , these tests unlike their equivalent in the united states . obliged to raise new capital were soon . , several banks flying colors passed . but the creation of the european banking union has not been the only important change to europe ’s financial regulation since the crisis .
not all succeeded ; but the successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the key to ensuring the future of europe ’s social-security systems , and thus its social model , is faster growth . it how would improve more europe is difficult . , and again . without being removed for a long time , and the growth obstacles are known . would have been implemented already if there were a politically easy way to generate growth : is quite simple for the reason .
ten times were been many firms of state-owned . the sums sales under the previous government of edvard shevardnadze yielded . . but their subsidiaries registered in third countries , russian companies was the transparency of an utter lack . typical was the russian holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which managed to get a major gold mine and then half of a plant producing gold alloys . russia ’s main foreign policy instrument in georgia is gazprom , the state-controlled gas monopoly . gazprom ’s aim is to control not only the gas industry in georgia , but also the only pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgia and armenia .
the main victims the crossfire are civilians . as always . the renewed fighting , coming eight months after a promising peace initiative known as the “ goma agreement , ” means more civilian deaths and little chance of normality returning to the eastern part of congo . yet , even at times when fighting is less intense congo the war the indirect effects suffers . a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a consequence of the war and its lingering effects in the last decade . half on territory under rebel control and with almost no access to aid are on the run . , a quarter of a million people .
henry kissinger once said , “ peace can be achieved only by hegemony or by balance of power . ” even of globalization itself of trade , the same could be said . it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the last 75 years – were characterized by balance of power and hegemony , respectively . of course , trade the absence more requires . like all activity of economic , it flourishes when property rights are respected , taxation is efficient and purposeful , letters of credit are honored , tariffs and other barriers are removed , and so forth .
set the manpower of much-needed for smes they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation for larger companies . when properly integrated into a student ’s education , externships can provide the competitive edge on college application essays and at campus or alumni interviews , which admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first century leaders from the competing hordes of top-scoring test-takers . a spirit of fearlessness in students imbue offers transparency for educators . , externships . our education system can from the world of industry off , i afford to wall . no longer .
but several million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in households with per capita income of less than $ 2 a day , essentially the same standard that the world bank uses to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . that income united states finding shelter is so difficult that $ 2-a-day poverty is almost certainly much worse in the us than $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . towns and cities that have lost their factories to globalization have also lost their tax base and find it hard to maintain quality schools – the escape route for the next generation . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills , and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this no doubt fosters resentment among the white working class , whose kids find no place in this brave new world .
once a company identifies which users have the most influence – well-known bloggers , for example – it may offer them better treatment , in the hope that they will recommend the service . website startups may even want to check their users ’ profiles on the angel list database of angel investors , viewing them as a potential source of financing . others might use services such as intercom to gain insight into their users ’ interests – from their preferences in music to their favorite hobbies – in order to offer more personalized service . indeed , to link users with their facebook friends or linkedin contacts , or recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location offer many services of online . because they are uncomfortable with unknown entities knowing so much about them , or whether because they are already well-known personalities trying to fend off adoring fans or mooches , some people do n't want this .
french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged position is under attack – by the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , and by legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . sa@@ me-@@ sex while left-wing catholics find themselves being crowded out by the right , he was a point . for many conservative catholics . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories , talk shows , online trolling , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters , too , reject multiculturalism and have responded to their status anxiety by dismissing expertise . with france becoming less catholic and the us becoming more diverse , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance have shown , they can not be written off just yet .
our central banks by withdrawing or adding paper assets to the stock held by private banks , run flow of money and . for better or worse . central banks buy from private banks commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets they want to stimulate economic activity , when . the banks then have more to lend cash . when the authorities down economy cool want , and vice . but the central banks less able will be transfer to their libra wallet from their bank account .
american relations reached a point of low with of iraq in 2003 , the american invasion . . while french president jacques chirac felt confirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for a multipolar world , the united nations felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics . is the administration of bush . that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states , the polls show the elections french presidential eve . despite a long history of alliance dating back to the american revolution and including two world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show similar reactions after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s .
they can do building efficient infrastructure , scientific research and so in a variety of ways . because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investments , particularly in developing countries , which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , lose out on more than $ 200 billion per year because of tax avoidance by multinationals , the best way to go is not . is tax competition . the result of the climate education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , less money is is effectively designed to steal tax revenues from others . the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are cut adding should stop multinationals . , and this should not be allowed . after all , the social responsibility corporate a basic principle is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate .
what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs coincided with bull markets . asset allocation meant than piling into stocks , bonds , and credit for little more , and index performance largely dictated security selection . but these are probably over , days . given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty is unlikely . is further supported by the market advances sustained . if probably more frequent episodes of volatility , returns of broad market are likely .
cambridge – economics teaches that the measure of an individual ’s wellbeing is the quantity and variety of goods he or she can consume . maximized by providing firms with the freedom they need to take advantage of new technologies , the division of labor , economies of scale , and mobility are in turn . is consumption possibilities . the means to it is production . ; the goal consumption . the analysis of object and object unit is markets , rather than communities , . market-centric vision of the economy has produced plenty of fruit , and no one can deny that this consumer .
fragmentation – meaning the end of the internet – is a real threat . some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be very costly to the world , but that is one of the possible futures outlined last month in the report of the global commission on internet governance , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the internet now connects nearly half the world ’s population , and another billion people – as well as some 20 billion devices – are forecast to be connected in the next five years . further expansion is not guaranteed but .
that sounded like a pleasant experience – maybe a learning experience – for young men who would otherwise be idle and unemployed . but it was not a great inspiration for the future , which may help to explain why roosevelt ’s new deal was unable to end america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , the us economy today the apparent strength relative may recent inspirations reflect very visible . . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , has helped to lower energy prices and has eliminated america ’s dependency on foreign oil . likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications in recent years reflects innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example – that has been indigenous to the us .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies – part of reducing the unpaid care work carried out by women in developing countries . delivered effectively without action from governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations will not be the agenda of ambitious . it will to help women move into more productive work requires job opportunities for women the creation , and the introduction of measures , additional investment . . that could easily deployed more be , mgi identified several interventions . measures proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls are provided with sanitation facilities in the places where they study , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
the unhcr , as currently conceived is not the independent , nonpartisan agency it claims to be . it not always have the political support it needs to get the job done is beholden to their interests . , host governments to launch relief operations were heavily dependent on donors . . to their place of origin , the return of migrants , asylum seekers , refugees , and the assists is the other major multilateral migration agency , the iom , . but the iom plague , governance issues . in particular , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments are using coercion – banned under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees .
with political gridlock blocking an appropriate fiscal response – after 2008 , the united states congress did not pass an annual budget , a basic component of responsible economic governance , for five years – central banks have been forced to bolster economies artificially . they 've relied on unconventional measures the interest rates of near-zero like quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation , to do so . this approach who a disproportionately large share of financial assets hold favors rich . beyond being incomplete . have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to through so-called inversions , by which they move their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions , including the tax bills reduce , companies as a result , most countries face a trio of inequalities – of income , wealth , and opportunity – which , left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences .
and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of legal migrants in the country . all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat in populist clothes – that is , a pluto-populist . how with pursuing policies that mostly hurt them has let him get his base . but ? he bet that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote on the basis of nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than for their own financial interests a view according . but how long can anyone be expected to support “ god and guns ” at the expense of “ bread and butter ” ?
the holiday received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider it to be special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . unfortunately , the army of red the only remaining relic is not february . obligatory conscription system is the soviet legacy military . while all other large european countries abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens aged 18 to 27 must serve for 12 months . exemptions are based on medical conditions , and are given to university students and employees of certain organizations ( for example , the police ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and profound crisis , albeit possibly one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice the size of belgium , netherlands , and luxembourg – and containing a population of 10.5 million . it is also charm moderation and full in its climate , history , and culture terms . it once the roman republic and empire the cultural dynamism and influence was the pillar . . it was the main source for catholic evangelism in africa is saint augustine land . the first african region to be christianized .
true , any arab – indeed , virtually everyone – knows exactly who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist had to disguise the culprit ’s image speaks volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists in the arab world . khashoggi ’s disappearance has only deepened their anxiety . who dare to speak truth to power , they have a long history of rewarding journalists who toe the official line . is arab countries . since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia is the only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule .
it will be hard to reverse financial liberalization , but its negative side effects – including greater systemic risk – require a series of reforms . are needed , who is holding them about complex assets and more information transparency . second can arise liquid secondary markets for them , and they should be standardised , so should be traded on exchanges rather than on over-the-counter markets , complex . . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions such as hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . fourth , the role of rating agencies needs to be rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced .
it is just one of facing the region for many challenges of domestic , and yet . become the force of primary , and take charge of their own agenda must be arabs . they should strengthen their strategic relationships and alliances with the outside world continue of course . become less dependent on others must also be but . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , to defend against non-existential threats and hegemonic expansionism .
now , a new paper by servaas storm effectively demolishes another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that labor market “ rigidities ” depress output and employment . by timothy besley and robin burgess using manufacturing data across indian states for the period 1958-92 , a paper . is one of the empirical investigations this argument most often . besley and burgess claimed to show that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that did not adopt such regulations . this conclusion came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful for industrial expansion , and that the way to increase production and employment in manufacturing is to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws that protect workers . it influenced policies accordingly across a wide range of developing countries ; in india , this wisdom was not only . .
britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . environmental hazards blow in on the wind . overwhelm any pretense at border controls threaten is migration pressures swelling . security concerns increasingly foreign policies and domestic implicate now . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers taking off on a mission , with one pilot saying to the others , “ it seems a long way to go to bomb a few young men from south london . ”
he proposed the organization of society and the economy new laws deepening his revolution . after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support . should be the catalyst for a new institutional arrangement within the country , one supposedly premised on a direct relationship between leader and people and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions , these laws but not fully implemented already approved . . meanwhile , all bodies of public power – all of them – now obey chávez . given this history , it is noteworthy that , in his speech the day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and for everyone to work together for the good of venezuela . he emphasized that the people had voted for chávez and socialism .
genes can such as radiation or chemicals , environmental factors be damaged . . they can also be damaged by normal metabolism of the products . have complex repair systems , even in the presence of damaging agents , that maintain our genes the integrity is our bodies . occasionally , however , damage is not repaired . cancer may occur if occurs in that regulate cell growth , key genes in the damage .
ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a powerful democratizing force – enabling innovative start-ups to compete with established businesses , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but they its head turned this force . , as some of those startups grew into behemoths . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now largely owns it , and rather than democratizing the economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the world ’s inequality problem . following the second powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur .
“ but the developing world can make it much worse . ” in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that by “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting alone . ” still , one is left wonder if this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove strong enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? for , although the us has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet does represent a new high-water mark for diversity – americans have often shown a xenophobic distrust of immigrants who have drawn too close to power . especially in the case of chinese , fears of divided national loyalties and “ fifth columns ” have been strong .
greece ’s economic weakness increases the current level of the deficit . have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments is declining gdp to five years . the imf estimates that nearly 5 % of gdp have raised revenue and outlays these effects of cyclical . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . both of a gdp share , and this also implies that if greece could escape from its current recession , its national debt would decline .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can together reshape the world order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a huge change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970 ’s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining equal status with china . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , the defense minister referred to china , and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee spoke of china as india ’s number one enemy . i found to the need to learn from china by contrast on the india of recent visits more .
this approach would not worked with him have easily since hil@@ de@@ brand was independently wealthy . so did he instead of the carrot receive the stick ? fortunately , we have a good independent test . new regulations are not ban@@ k-@@ friendly head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , . while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the middle of a crisis , his order that banks increase their capital is entirely justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at almost zero cost .
second , and partly as a consequence , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . while it was necessary to price risk more accurately , it is difficult to believe that the netherlands , with a debt ratio nearly 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be assessed as a higher default risk . but now even the mighty bund has suffer from the market anxiety heightened started . third , financial-market participants and , increasingly , real businesses are pricing in a possible breakup of the eurozone , if not the end of the euro itself . any rational player must now consider the possibility , but it is still difficult to think the unthinkable , let alone work out the details of it .
indeed , by coincidence , on the sunday the young football fan was murdered in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , was meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . that was as part of a gathering , led by surkov , of russian youth-movement activists , i taking place . , meeting . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make ready for the elections , train your brains and muscles . you can always rely on our support . ” those muscles were use very day outside that kremlin walls put .
hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit the frog once lamented that “ it ’s not easy bein ’ green . ” today , this sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy – only it is becoming green that is the problem . last september , the intergovernmental panel for climate change warned that if the world sticks with “ business as usual , ” global temperatures may rise more than 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c increase that has been deemed “ safe . ” this to intensify their efforts to achieve a new global agreement on climate change by 2015 , and the ki-moon of secretary-general ban to challenge political economic leaders prompted un . . but unless they are backed by considerable investment in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables , they 'll amount little as are important as high-level deals .
provides a keen reminder of how unjust today 's international institutions are is the imf a new managing director search . they reflect realities that have long ceased to exist , the postwar world of 1945 created . reflects a global equilibrium that disappeared long ago is the allocation organization and of power in the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings . the soviet union raised a major threat in a civil war that would bring mao 's communists to power , and and japan 's germany were after wwii . was very poor of it ; was either recently independent , or remained colonies of the so-called third world .
th@@ en-@@ british minister david to agree to a cap on the movement of people into the uk , angela made her a appeal of last-minute . , just before the brexit referendum in 2016 . a narrow margin passed the referendum of brexit . , and merkel refused . that merkel is now facing the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 is the irony . especially if the ratio of retirees to workers is rising , i 'm good for the economy . tends , immigration . but when the level of immigration exceeds a country ’s capacity to absorb new workers , there can be severe economic and social costs , at least in the short term .
the odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and in a 2010 report by the center for global development ( cgd ) , which proposed that economic sanctions include a mechanism aimed at preventing the accumulation of odious obligations . what would be considered odious , debt issued by a particular government is a declaration . would take the mechanism . this is what the administration of trump has just done in effect . such a declaration reduces the flow of funds to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments will renounce their predecessor ’s debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts will not enforce the debt contracts ) . considered odious if it abuses the human rights of the population , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates public funds should be a regime . proposes . is the cgd report .
that cleared the way for the return of bhutto , who remained prime minister until 1996 , when she was dismissed yet again – this time , by her own pakistan peoples party . in 1997 , it was sharif ’s turn again . resulting to eight years of military rule in another coup in 1999 had intensified over the years . but his confrontation with military . to the presidency , mr previous . had been reported . , and musharraf resigned under popular pressure . zar@@ dar@@ i instead expected the two prime ministers who served under him to follow his orders , and did not his prime minister to transfer executive authority . , ignoring constitutional requirements .
was conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring in the 19 th century in western europe and throughout the 20 th century in east asia -- in which fertility rates fell dramatically is the transition of rich countries from sustained growth and prosperity subsistence economies . witnessed fertility declines of similarly sharp in poor countries that are now solid signs of economic progress showing is the last two decades . fertility rates declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman in the last 15 years in egypt . by 2.6 % , the average annual income per capita grew during the last decade . growth rate fell by more than 50 % , to a european level of slightly more than two children per woman , while per capita income grew at an impressive annual rate of 3 % during the same period .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s efforts to create a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now being met by an american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . on similar paths , he are too bad . were two countries . though china still has a lot of catching up to do , its total defense spending only to the us is already second . . it has built and launched the first carrier aircraft , and launch more has plans . . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defense systems .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous level of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external force for order is available . the resulting vacuum has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession attempts by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . the end of the enforced stability of the old middle east will not spare the sykes-picot borders implies . is the us partial withdrawal . jordan was increasingly uncertain , and suggest developments in iraq and syria . are currently playing no global power rivalries is one of the positive features of the region .
why are services so important for china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than the country ’s traditional growth sectors . chinese services than did manufacturing and construction , more jobs per unit . generated 30 % . in 2011 . this means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption objectives – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with much slower gdp growth than in the past . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption targets that required 10 % growth under china ’s previous model .
the united kingdom now seems certain to hold , by 2016 , a referendum on remaining in the eu , and a far-left party – determined , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic reform – could win spain ’s general election next autumn . certainly , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , and spain opting for the status quo or a more moderate vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government has embraced . but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece leaving the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk leaving the eu ) , and a spanish election result that resembles greece ’s . should such a perfect storm occur , the eu ’s very existence would be in doubt , because other member countries would consider or begin planning their own post-eu futures . indeed , all of the euroskeptic and nationalist forces in the eu ’s member states would strive , with increasing success , to make their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the eu the central issue in domestic political debate and election campaigns .
at historic highs , oil prices . the economies of leading are a recession entering . circles going around is change negotiations on climate . is stagnant , despite promised increases years is aid to the countries of poorest . and yet in this gathering storm it was hard to find a single real accomplishment by the world ’s leaders .
the presidency on his promise would spur economic revival , the world that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina won two years earlier in 18@@ 00 . instead , they for his defeat , he put the way . . in a few short years , the package of pro-market reforms and economic opening the world rest seemed out of step . uncertainty about the future overshadowing hope and uncertainty set a new tone for politics . is deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism . frustration is even afflicting the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile .
ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” but in america now , it is the morning after . americans left with a pile of debt , and instead of hope that more consumption would make them happier . , it is inevitable : is this drive toward an off-the-grid , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there-on-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy . they were asked to admire the top of the income pyramid , only to find that they were looking at a pyramid scheme . it is no wonder therefore , that a kind of survivalist chic has become the updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960 ’s . americans have lost their faith in those who , in the boom times , purred , “ trust us . ”
to avoid any dramatic action that could become a casus belli by itself is careful . to be sure . indeed , it for disaggregating its strategy into multiple parts and then each element in such a manner as to allow the different pieces to fall into place with minimal resistance is pursuing . , i shown a ability . has repeatedly . . this shrewdness not only keeps opponents off balance ; it also undercuts the relevance of us security assurances to allies and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of starting a war on an opponent , while it seeks to lay the foundation – brick by brick – of a hegemonic middle kingdom . chinese leaders ’ stated desire to resolve territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving a position strong enough to get their way without having to fire a shot .
these cities are building on good ideas one another learning . other cities , like beijing , how they saw the benefits converted quickly . , but los angeles took decades to pollution controls implement . in the coming decades , we may see a global system of interconnected sustainable cities emerging . everyone will join the club , want if successful . fundamentally , this is the right approach for managing systemic risk and change in complex interconnected systems , and for successfully managing common resources – though it has yet to dent the inexorable rise in global greenhouse-gas emissions .
new york – a few years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met president xi jinping in beijing ’s great hall of the people . when addressing us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” so named for the greek historian who chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens made war between the two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? , harvard university ’s graham allison examines 16 earlier rivalries between an emerging and an established power , and finds that 12 of them led to war . us to focus on the remaining four , xi wanted . following iran most powerful leader of iran 's second leader the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the recent history china is a reasonable view . , what ? does it matter that the chinese communist party killed millions upon millions people , desecrated the environment and deeply wounded china 's traditional culture , to put it crudely ? avoid the issue , putting it as irrelevant and anyway too unpleasant off tend is chinese intellectuals . we look ahead and not back need , they say . please do anything that may upset that hopeful movement are finally the right direction moving , things .
london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and a canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? they in which to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind a front , and organizations powerful was tried . , you are all cases . . and they are all cases in which that effort did n’t work . the global uproar triggered by the panama papers – 11.5 million files taken , apparently by computer hackers , from the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time . the files ’ release has revealed the extreme , and sometimes costly , lengths that individuals go to hide their assets and avoid taxation .
they will be problems for another day , but will not be savory for the consequences of longer-term . some will say that the first place of the euro allowing greece was the fatal mistake . . that was unprepared for the country should have been clear . its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions were agitating to push wages up to european levels , despite lagging productivity . that such signs of dysfunction are not limited to greece , it 's too simple . , but this answer .
because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and larger debts , he a financial crisis produce . was that policy . despite austerity , the forecast of this year ’s uk structural deficit has increased from 6.5 % to 8 % – requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts a year . to blame blame in fact , their own economic illiteracy , the eurozone crisis ; for prime minister david cameron and chancellor george the explanation is repeating unfortunately for all of us . depressions , recessions , contractions – call them what you will – occur because the private-sector spends less than it did previously .
paris – last month , the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend , which fits the worst-case scenario laid out by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm toward the end of this century – with devastating consequences . indeed , the predicted global average temperature increase of 2.4-6.4 ° c caused by such high ambient co2 concentrations is expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in the ipcc scenarios , including the loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to risk and uncertainty such on future generations avoid in order , global carbon emissions , which stand at 8.5 gigatons annually , must be halved by 2050 . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will increase to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences .
the us has and they 're sustainable the fisheries rebuilding . turned a corner . . the european commission has just presented a proposal to reform the common fisheries policy designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . both policies is the corner@@ stone . is good science . it in order , we get our respective houses . is not enough . , but . because fish and other ocean wildlife do not stay within national boundaries , international cooperation is essential to the long-term health of the world ’s oceans and the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs .
have the potential to improve disease management , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs , technologies that engage patients in their own health care and a adherence of more to medication systems enable . today ’s transformational advances in health care owe much to new genomics information , to the availability of big data to influence decisions in real time , to more targeted and individualized therapies , and to smarter , more connected delivery systems . they are just the beginning , but . especially as unconventional players enter the health sector furthermore , can be expected enabled by science and technology convergence . in this process , and technology health-care partnerships will increasingly important become .
when the incentives for money to flow across borders are strong , it will find a way , abetted by the proliferation of firms with operations in multiple countries and the expansion of international trade – which serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls . controls over the decade of last find their way was even in a tightly managed economy like china . simply leads to its being disguised in other forms establishing controls on one type of inflow . capital controls have real costs , even if they fail to stanch inflows . they those who are better connected , politically or economically , or have the sheer heft to get around the restrictions competition makes a protection layer . .
they can potential returns change the pricing calculus , but such shifts may emerge only slowly . today ’s market is easy to explain in terms of fundamental factors : earnings are growing , inflation has been kept at bay , and the global economy appears to be experiencing a broad , synchronized expansion . monetary fund to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year updated its global outlook in october . and interest rates will remain low for the major central banks , or begun have already , , monetary policy are planning . . political crises , however sensational they may be , are not likely to change investors ’ economic calculus .
skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s claim that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ” more than once he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne had been motivated by an erroneous belief that if he did not reduce the deficit , he might forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . just a week before the uk voted this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , “ still wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” might “ decide that they should have stayed in bed . ” instead , confounding pollsters , an outright majority won alike . , the tories . what could possibly have gone wrong – or , rather , right ?
was who had sat dore gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador , and i 'm completed eight years . , dagan to my right the two men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s security , and it is worth recapitulating their respective arguments . gold argued that returning to pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ” he insisted that israel could guard against threats from the east only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river – which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . dagan countered that the military ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s borders , regardless of where those borders are drawn .
he would assume that one-fifth of americans were unemployed and standing in lines outside soup kitchens if wake up today after a decades-long sleep and see only those numbers was a rip van winkle economist . . instead , the us jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his famous first step onto the moon ’s surface 50 years ago . the idea that the us wins in a global slump might sound like the sardonic musing of some unreconstructed marxist in the dingy corner of a faculty lounge . ideological is n't but such a view . because gdp growth outside the us is so sluggish , i scraping the floor . is interest rates of global .
from 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations increased by more than 1.4 million acres . these trees soak up carbon dioxide , although not planted for climate purposes . balancing the actual increase in its overall figures include this specific emission successfully negotiated . . for safety ’s sake , the country also bought lots of foreign offsets , including highly dodgy ones from russia and ukraine . but growing forests also reduced new zealand ’s emissions in the comparison year of 1990 .
berlin – europe finally appears to have moved past its multi-year economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . there always seems to a new cause for concern be for every optimism reason . over whatever promise the twenty-first century might have held , british voters a majority of slim chose the teenth teenth teenth teenth last night . so they decided to jump off a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom is much evidence . is there .
new york – the basic outlines of barack obama ’s approach to foreign policy became clear in 2009 . the united states should even if it disagrees profoundly with their character , talk to other governments his administration . he acting with other countries prefers . and he has do within their borders to what countries foreign policy , i shifted the focus of us . . administration branded selected countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often rejected cooperation with other governments , lest the us find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries , rather than to influence their actions , george george , bush differentiates obama . is all of this .
until now , the wealth of nations based upon coal , gas , and oil combustion has been reported . . but , if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries that are not so far down the path of carbonization ( such as large parts of africa ) , or that leave it in time ( such as india and pakistan ) , able to become wealthy by helping societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . all this is still for the moment . in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are far from being fair and effective ; a major improvement would include establishing a central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emissions credits . this bank would also ensure that emissions trading did not run counter to the goal of remaining within the entire global budget , for example via the complete sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the beginning of the contract period .
the media have been public resources , cultural cohesion portraying refugees in many countries . former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss to donald trump in the 2016 presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on the public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees , in order to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s africa commissioner , had an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede land to be administered by the european union as special economic zones , in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” they would not end the crisis ; unethical are not is such solutions . . except for a measure of stopgap , work will not be humanitarian aid alone .
iran has had for purchasing kidneys , a government-funded regulated system since 1988 . arranges the transaction , for a set price , and except the profits of seller from no one is a charitable association of patients . the scheme has eliminated the waiting list for kidneys in that country , without giving rise to ethical problems according to a study iranian kidney experts published in 2006 . . because they did not meet strict age criteria , and others who were required to visit a psychologist , he turned away . showed many potential donors . is a 2006 bbc television program . needed the iranian system of a study of more systematic
it was would find it easier to import from one another , european countries . , but was discrimination for the concern . officials the epu would the functions of the newly created international monetary fund duplicate , i worried . in addition . at this point , however , the two narratives diverge . with the advent of the cold war , president harry s. truman ’s administration and the us congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . to this end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of marshall plan funds .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states have shown , among other things , that public distrust of global integration is on the rise . prevent future ones from being initiated could new trade agreements currently derail . , that distrust . should not underestimated danger implied by this scenario the trade-based economic engine that has to the world for decades , he delivered peace . would break if taken too far , isolationism and protectionism . as a former trade minister for costa rica , i know how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to all of their people .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set on keeping him there . chávez is the loser not only because he had provided the farc moral support ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” not terrorists , and publicly called uribe an american stooge ) , but also because it is believed that he has been providing the farc covert military support . that backing appeared to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which has used venezuela ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in the hope of building up a regional anti-american alliance . there were serious grounds over the last three years to believe that latin america was going through one of its regular bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . but that the traditional regional powerhouses of chile , brazil , and mexico have experienced economic booms of their own has meant . is worldwide increase in recent in commodity prices .
len@@ ders will not rush to make more bad mortgages , even if lower interest rates remains the reserve of us federal . . would be to continue their profligacy willing with house prices declining the bush administration is hoping , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures – thereby passing the economy ’s problems on to the next president , just as it is doing with the iraq quagmire . are slim is of succeeding , his chances . . only if a slowdown of more prolonged , but shallower , , a short , sharp downturn is possible for america .
has the costs of own but centr@@ alisation given the risk inherent in betting on policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly valuable human capital , especially well-educated young people , to leave lagging regions for those that offer more and better employment opportunities – could prove to be a critical tool for adjustment . labour mobility in the eu , it is incomplete . as it stands . but , with language training and the implementation of something like the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs ( which aimed to create an innovative “ learning economy , ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could be enhanced . but labor mobility more is no panacea .
i believe , but feel themselves not only european in most elites of russian . they live in moscow or irkutk , not paris or budapest forget , fixated on europe . is mo@@ sle@@ m for 8 % of our population , and we inherited a lot from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a common history , but culturally we are predominantly european . look at with the contempt often found in the tiger economies of asia , their more relaxed . is working like machines 16 hours a day , seven days a week , many new russians . " it 's not america , you have to work here " -- is a popular joke .
other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , are also feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . far from moving to stop this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it . while suu kyi does not control the military , which is leading the murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to halt work in the affected areas . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who previously won international acclaim – and a nobel peace prize – for her role in the fight for democracy in myanmar .
although eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , the dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their common interests , which are based not only on economic interdependence , but also on the refugee crisis and the collective fight against terrorism . european politics next year , meanwhile , will be consumed by the negotiations of brexit . article 50 of the formal procedure for withdrawal of the lisbon treaty will likely be the united kingdom . to reach an agreement that guarantees the wellbeing of future eu-uk relations will be the challenge . only 18 months timeline has already set eu negotiators . , and this will not be easy .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in the practice of their own faiths – a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative portrayal of islam . moreover , members of najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of penalties within sharia law that could imply strict limitations on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their faith . according to the us state department ’s own human-rights reports , curbs on religious freedoms have included demolition of hindu temples , bombings of christian churches , and a ban on the practice of shia islam , to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . reveal persistent deficits as well as press corruption and freedom international measures
can reasonably be predicted decades , centuries , or even millennia in advance are not many human activities . , there . the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming through greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels , and its impact on rising sea levels , is another . indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report stated , in uncharacteristically strong terms , that the sea level is “ virtually certain ” to continue to rise in the coming centuries or millennia . moreover , the seas will increase our emissions greater . the revelations of recent is different but
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies ruined , and relationships fractured by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , by bombing the us embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their sleep at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks did garner the world ’s attention , most people do not realize that , in the past five years alone , 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and groups espousing it are threatening to reverse africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also for decades to come . where extremist groups can germinate , and ungoverned territory are particularly vulnerable . is african countries .
the first problem is china ’s economy , so dynamic on the surface , but so rickety underneath . the analyst chi lo lucidly success alongside micro failure presents a picture . . the huge stimulus of rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) in november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises via directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of global recession . while excessive chinese household savings have inflated real-estate bubbles , bad loans to growing portfolios was increasingly serious mi@@ sal@@ location . but the price . moreover , chi argues that the crisis of 2008 shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged impairment of demand in the advanced countries .
moreover , the us insists that it is not containing china ( as it did the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise has been facilitated by access to us markets , as well as to global markets through american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization . on human rights , the us argues that there are indeed fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and current systems . but this is very different from an organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions in the view of american . bilateral deficit 's strategic-trust is growing for these reasons . xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept for “ a new type of great power relationship , ” one that seeks to avoid what others have concluded is the near-inevitability of long-term conflict between a rising power ( china ) and the established power ( america ) .
there the corporate-tax burden actually on employees rather than on capital does fall . is little evidence . , and . the taxation institute and the congressional budget nonpartisan us , among others , have that over 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholders , not workers , i demonstrated clearly . . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes “ distort ” behavior and hamper wealth creation . this at best is simplistic . , but for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is competition among the market firms very different .
they to use life-extending techniques for patients and families who want them and are even willing to pay for them play god . , doctors are not gods . in holland , there is no private medicine . to leave the country or go to the courts is dissatisfied patients with the recourse of only . europe 's states welfare thus face a serious dilemma . no doubt that holland money on caring for old people spends essential . , there 's .
unfortunately , it infrastructure development chinese model may be exported far from clear . . china ’s strong central government overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , and for many years ran roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . the old soviet union parallels are striking . in asia work differently , some developing countries . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport , because courts forced the government to respect the rights of squatters on its outskirts .
and there might be deterred by the need to rely on long-term pricing agreements , they as there could be from airports , be earned . are revenues . . it as a way to boost aggregate demand , fall into the trap of thinking of the tax cuts . is easy . is . but on paying for the cuts in personal income tax by limiting the deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bills , congressional republicans may insist . the representatives house speaker , and the tax plan put forward on behalf of the republicans by paul ryan that would enough to pay for very substantial reductions in individual tax rates , raise revenue equal to 1 % of gdp , change .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . population growth , land degradation , and industrialization the face cite loss of habitat . is often observers . there 's the charge of most of all : that an increase in poaching is endangering species such as elephants and rhinos and . however , a conservation project extensive innovative is underway in kenya . begun in the aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhino ark , ” originally conceived to protect the highly endangered black rhino from the ravages of poachers , is supported by the very people who might have resisted it : the local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas .
the convoluted logic behind this strategy is quite disturbing – not only for the us , but also for the global economy . of a balance-sheet recession that have now been evident for nearly five years , lasting aftershocks is nothing . , there . us households has barely begun . is balance-sheet repair . the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from the 1.5 % low of 2005 , but half the 7.5 % average recorded in the last three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the massive remains the overhang of debt .
the european currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , as more recent chaotic demonetizations as well , was far from a successful transition , i show . . a second early success was that , by virtually all measures of international use , the euro instantly became the world ’s second global reserve currency . furthermore , reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly the central and eastern european countries that later joined the european union led . must be the club admitted . more recent entries on the “ success ” side of the ledger include the progress of some periphery countries , particularly spain , reducing their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs . ecb president mario draghi deserves top marks for balancing germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline and the mediterranean need for accommodation .
if she is unlucky , the crisis will come to a head at the start of the german election year , and all previous calculations could be moot , because , despite germans ’ frustration with europe , the electorate would punish severely those who allowed europe to fail . the european union ’s economy is sliding into a severe and , in all likelihood , long-lasting recession , largely self-inflicted . while germany is still trying to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the eu crisis countries are facing the deflation of a threat of real , with potentially disastrous consequences . it is only a question of time – no longer very much time – before economic destabilization gives rise to political instability . the eurozone crisis and deflation remains where democratic backsliding be taking hold appears , hungary . .
even today , a variety of sophisticated means thanks , we can detect very small nuclear tests in remote locations . the treaty is also fair — it includes the same rights and responsibilities for all its parties . it nuclear weapons treaty obligations a standard of new sets verification . . nuclear weapons the development and improvement requires because of the role of nuclear tests . is the ctbt . eliminate these weapons of abhorrent of mass destruction determined , such tests are also political symbols .
we need leaders with sufficient mastery of detail , like china ’s last premier zhu rongji , who can not only tell us how they will get us from a to z , but can actually lead us from a to b. leaders like this seem to be an extinct species looking around . or , if they exist at all , they be constrained by dysfunctional political systems appear . limited by the environment of political is to act their ability . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes rested – probably too many for any one leader .
today , palestinians are seeking statehood on a mere 22 % of the territory that had been part of mandatory palestine until israel was unilaterally established on areas much larger than those awarded by un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . palestine ’s quest for statehood within the borders of june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within international law . the un security council resolved in november of that year that “ acquisition of territory by war ” is unacceptable . this principle have upheld international treaties and subsequent security council resolutions . in fact , the 1967 borders based on a palestinian state is exactly what has called for us president barack obama .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a world networked by interests and shared causes is likely to be more resilient than one crammed into the artificial – and increasingly constraining – box of the national state . in that sense , economic success in china or india may be those states ’ undoing , as middle-class political aspirations render current arrangements dysfunctional . conversely , we may find association post-@@ state models of the west in a world whose eastern half is organized into strong authoritarian state structures . is how to provide a framework of institutions and rules in a world of competing organizational structures is international governance question . the politicians ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon our own states and diplomacy to their fate .
the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself of vested interests . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for and reforms economic . many hope that will strengthen the role of the market , and prevent the so-called 13 income trap the ccp become more effective help . in these changes . however , the party ’s rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will be achieved . the reform agenda , the respected free-market economist li keqiang , the principal architect is already being sidelined , i are afraid . , there 's actually .
such flows should financial governments be shut both . . more essential is , curtailing the flow of recruits . a europe-wide watch list , for example , would help ; can make it difficult for individuals to leave for iraq or syria more , countries . it will enforce united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism , and that it will no longer allow itself to be a conduit . , you have a better impact than turkey . , but nothing . is 's , and must counter another component of any strategy .
political technology means secretly sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , setting up fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to prevent a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ enemy . ” in 1996 , the enemy was the communists ; in 1999-2000 , the chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs . ” now it is us – the supposedly hostile west and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won stability . have that is hardly likely to disappear overnight , an entire industry of political use in russia , but medvedev himself may find some or all of this distasteful . we also need to understand russian politics of succession the mechanics .
only to reconstruct the state , but society too -- its family values , its national traditions and cultural heritage was n't . is our task . learn our constituent parts languages , just as we learned a new economic and political language must now be our new societies freed . through learning each other 's languages , through cooperation based on shared values , common interests as well as historical ties , central europe has what can achieved spectacular results demonstrated . the visegrád group , cefta , the central european initiative have produced a thriving free trade system and an increasing flow of investment between countries in the region . in a broader context , western structures of institutional of hungary 's re-integration is proceeding steadily if not at the desired pace .
decided of the aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms to build an electrified fence and in 1988 . the fence was designed to prevent intrusion from the human population and degradation of the park ’s habitat . it marauding elephant and other wildlife being destroyed . protected farmers . , but . the decision to expand surround the perimeter of the entire aberdare range fence the initiative was welcomed by local farmers . the aberdare mountains , indigenous forest and vital water catchment areas 400 kilometers of square as a national park encompassing , are vital to kenya .
have two major causes in these protests first , there part to the disappearance of the soviet union and , with it , the threat of expansionist communism owing grown unabated in the west over the last quarter-century . , social inequality . the power of the state to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of loyal middle classes was forced by the revolution specter . but , when communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , the west ’s rich , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed to roll back the welfare state , causing inequality to rise rapidly . the global financial crisis ended that in 2008 , but this was tolerable as long as the overall pie was expanding .
the un estimated at $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade of the illicit drug trade in 1998 . only half that - a sum still remarkable is the figure . , critics say . far worse than chicago under al capone is colombia today . so , too , another american of latin , russian countries are . imposes a tax on the global trade in illicit drugs that governments and collected by those willing to violate the laws is enforced . is drug prohibition .
tatiana insisted that bam construction was started in 1974 , the politically correct date , after which “ clean labor ” was used . but the railway ’s first section – initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that ran farther away from the chinese border – was built by forced labor , including russian inmates and german and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . they were not nearly as enthusiastic as official accounts claim , were used for volunteers , when . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few re-enlisted , and many before completing their term , i deserted . . showed what that was still capable of achieving dying soviet system , however , the bam construction brezhnev-era .
despite running the city council of rome for the performance of poor , it remains popular despite around 26-29 % . that , owing to a electoral new law , it will have to win roughly 40 % of the total vote to secure a parliamentary majority is the problem for m5s . whereas proportional representation will determine two-thirds of seats in the lower house , one-third will be decided by first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies , where the m5s will likely lose out , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities . will be the only one that has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right will the most of the electoral system current benefit . as he demonstrated with his election victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been building coalitions .
the upa ’s critics long claimed that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares and freight charges for rail services – which could not cover the cost of maintenance to ensure the safety of trains and tracks , much less enable expansion and improvement of service – reflected the government ’s inability to make tough decisions . it is true that coalition politics prevented decisive action , with a railway minister being summarily dismissed by his own party leader – whom the upa was politically unable to confront – after attempting to raise fares . but , in the pre-election interim budget , the upa government finally a increase % in rail fares and proposing bit the bullet . . per india ’s code of political conduct , the budget changes were deferred until after the election . the mo@@ di government announced though officials made sure to emphasize that they were merely following through on an existing mandate to price increases implement soon after taking office .
can illegal be declared under the approved bill coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic national register of citizens , the authorities will be able to disenfranchise any indian muslim who is unable to prove his or her provenance in india . only in recent decades have become birth certificates . ; lack of documentary evidence of when and where they were born for many indians , especially the poor , . get a free pass while non-muslims would , thanks to the approved bill , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus of proving that they are indian . this a degree of astonishing of cultural diversity in the practice of seven decades .
having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , particularly given the eurozone economy ’s close links to russia via trade and energy . compounding the problem , no one truly among institutions and markets russian and european understands precise connections . . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was completely unexpected . important financial institution a similar failure prepared to deal , is europe ? the financial sanctions on russia temporary , or fully credible targeted are n't .
growth has become the fate of ordinary citizens decoupled with real wages rising at less than half this rate , but gdp has nearly tripled over the past 20 years . than they earn , middle-income households more than half spend every month . the social distress of the signs are multiplying . south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled , fertility rates have fallen to the fourth lowest among advanced economies , and the suicide rate is the highest in the oecd . south korea two key reasons is worried . .
this may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals considered highly dangerous . police actions must even if this means more controls and surveillance , be merci@@ less . . it alter the equilibrium between security freedom and need is precisely that we prevent the development of a collective security fear . . its capacity to fight terrorism is probably better while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional weapons . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that has allowed it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which has merely reinforced , rather than undermined , the enemy ’s fanaticism .
ross should read mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half banks , and reflect on the high cost of credit for low-income families . he could ask the acting white house chief of staff , mick mulvaney or . mul@@ x the loan industry from lending at high interest rates to people who have no alternative when they desperately need cash makes most of its profits . received large donations . while in the house of representatives . mulvaney also devoted considerable time over the past two years to weakening the safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau previously attempted to implement to prevent some of the industry ’s worst abuses . the stock price of payday lenders rose as the government shutdown lengthened .
seoul – a vast revolution in military affairs is taking place across east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , an ex-politburo member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission , on charges of corruption , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit the country to provide military aid to its allies . despite the rising regional tensions that inspired these moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to lead to direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , to address their disputes in new and more creative ways if that outcome is to be avoided . there are building international institutions promoting democracy of three ways to foster international peace : in general .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the last two years has to do with a fundamental source of instability in the banking system , one that we can and must design out of existence . we must advance the state of our financial technology , to do that . banks leaves them short of capital is the declining market value of many assets . , i find . in a serious financial crisis . they can not raise much more capital during the crisis , so , in order to restore capital adequacy , they stop making new loans and call in their outstanding loans , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . rather technical in are its solutions , nature is this problem .
yet , having enjoyed a huge subsidy from moscow , kadyrov provided it with some security grozny has rebuilt . catered to the chechen majority the aspirations of spiritual is also kadyrov . he rejected wahhabism – the ideological framework of the jihadists . he kept him as who understood a leader as she is an essential part of the chechen tradition , but . so he encouraged an islamic dress code and built a huge mosque – one of the biggest , if not the biggest , in europe .
at a massive level , village housing must be provided . revitalized if trade be is restored must also be roads , airports and communications systems . with so many women anxious to return to teaching , a revived educational system will also help afghanistan 's democratic politicians gain a powerful lobby of workers , and to be rebuilt almost from scratch requires the educational system . . particular attention should be outside the cities of schools and elementary libraries given . is not a society with a strong political center in reconstruction particular difficulties , afghanistan .
course , no mere hypothetical is what i have just described . it a depiction of capsule of the federal reserve of united states and the european central bank is . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ different approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experiences . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems that they face . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , when the fed stood idly by as the economy collapsed , is the molding event seared into the consciousness of every american central banker .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit cutting was taking effect , forecast a major reduction in unemployment or that economic growth would recover to brisk rates . on the contrary , “ the disastrous turn toward austerity has destroyed millions of jobs and ruined many lives , ” he argued , with the us congress exposing americans to “ the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts . ” as a result , “ full recovery still looks a very long way off , ” he warned . “ and i ’m beginning to worry that it may never happen . ” i raise all of this because krugman took a victory lap in his end-of-2014 column on “ the obama recovery . ”
even though many of them are in trouble , it ’s probably not the best time to start a new car company , either . it could be a good time to start a business replacing gasoline engines with electric ones , but has slowed new cars the market . the group ’s initiative , led by räsänen , is called ecars - now ! it spring up worldwide will be a company than a model of role for companies . , a small operation in finland . borrowing from the open-software movement , räsänen and his colleagues want to make the idea and the basic designs free , and encourage lots of companies all over the world to implement it locally .
but i think that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” for example , no one has ever to measure whether and to what extent a government is effective developed a precise way . , consider . . if the criterion of effectiveness is the ability to achieve all of a society ’s goals , we will probably never find such a thing . the united states , with a government as weak , that can barely be described . , bungled the war in iraq and hurricane katrina the aftermath . compared to these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya look like the height of success .
produce like ebola , the vaccines for nasty diseases . develop dr@@ ough@@ t-@@ resistant crops , and expand opportunities for science technology these and other funding streams . lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains , unfortunately , governments of many african . a new approach , more collaborative to african science is urgently needed simply put . africa ’s leaders have pooled their science resources before . in 2003 , the african union and the new partnership for africa ’s development began implementing a continent-wide strategy “ to develop and use science and technology for the socioeconomic transformation of the continent and its integration into the world economy . ”
london – five years after the collapse of the us investment bank lehman brothers , the world has still not addressed the fundamental cause of the subsequent financial crisis – an excess of debt . and that is why economic recovery has progressed much more slowly than anyone expected ( in some countries , it has not come at all ) . most was low and stable , assured as inflation , so long , but economists , central bankers , and regulators was not undermined by the crisis . . and , once the immediate crisis had been contained , we how would be its consequences foresee hurt failed . in the spring of the united states , in the eurozone , fuel a knock-on crisis . , and the initial crisis of 2009 anticipated neither a slow recovery .
will lose its voice at the table in the uk is the difference of big . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will allow the uk to stay in the eu in all but name . and for some of those in the “ leave ” camp , it is a way to exit without falling off a cliff edge . center around uk-eu relations a roadmap after 2021 will be phase two third agreement . this will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather where both sides end up hope , a declaration of political .
disputes between non-arab arab , sunni and shia , and salafi extremists and theological moderates is lost . is the islamic world . al qaeda ’s agenda is as much about the creation of a new islamic caliphate as it is about waging jihad against the west . europeans to stomach traditional islamic attitudes towards , say , women or homosexuals , you find hard . , fourth . to how we can believe our society is civilized when pornography and drunkenness are openly displayed understand , muslims find it hard . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as a matter of an individual ’s relationship with his or her god ; muslims see it as an organizing social principle .
yanukovych had always been the kremlin ’s ally . indeed , his election in 2010 marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which had defeated his effort to steal the presidential election in 2004 and keep ukraine in the russian camp . did an association eu press agreement , without being able to what russia offered offer ukraine anything comparable . , so why ? the answer can russia and europe the relationship be found . . with the collapse of the soviet union , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe , it was forced to withdraw toward a frontier that it had extended westward since peter the great – ultimately to the elbe and thuringia .
high performance what 's needed ? which i the economic dynamism call , it is productive . be imbedded in a stimulating workplace , with new problems to solve , harder tasks to be mastered , added abilities to strive for must be develop for employees . it wants investments that appear to the financial sector as productive ; a country does not want pointless or misguided change less obviously . particularly low prosperity was associated with performance weak economic is the late .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . regulating new public information channels social networks such are also necessary . is new concepts of the public interest . second , standard views of business income and wealth taxation will need to be adapted to account for it firms ’ monopoly power . and , third , laws intended to protect private information should be reevaluated to ensure that it companies are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . the public shall the lives of so many have improved the economic effects of it a deeper understanding above all .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in as many years – this time in the central african republic – interventionism , which seemed discredited after the us invasion of iraq , seems to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . indeed , relentless intervention decades have their achievability rather than their merit gave recent operations shifted the debate . . see why , more often than not , such intervention to attain its objectives has failed . to how this shift occurred understand . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays requires nothing more than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counter-terrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous link to ongoing united nations deliberations . a military operation might also be referred to the un security council , but only after the fact , when the council ’s decision can no longer significantly affect events on the ground .
he argues that because they theoretical models for the beauty or elegance mistook for truth . , economists became blind macro failure . . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession ’s patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith – that valued grand and unifying theories of political economy and moral philosophy . have driven the profession from theory toward ideology , putting it out of touch with the real economy seems is reductionist and mechanical models contemporary obsession . make them useful in explaining the price mechanism and the balance or imbalance of key aggregate economic variables is micro and macro models the elegance simplicity . to describe or analyze the actual behavior of key market participants are not possible . but both models .
they enable stealing ; facilitate sharing after all of these databases of no-strings-attached . cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the food and agriculture organization is now . is access to genetic sequence data to the question . the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity , the main treaty regulating access to biodiversity is the forum for such discussions may be most important . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , in early december . the need to protect resource providers the rights must focus on cop 13 participants .
demand growth at a pace that in any previous decade would have been seen as highly satisfactory is suddenly desperately insufficient , and bush is being blamed ( with some justice ) for the slack labor market that has resulted . but for except bush everyone - and those left in demand by the lag - it is an extraordinary opportunity . the remarkable boosts to productivity that have been within america 's grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating growth of real profits and real wages , if only us policy makers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient , but economically damaging , measures to " protect " output and employment . america gets ensure it must create - not only copy and adapt , growth . - new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations for the hardest work as the world 's leading-edge economy . this is other , less-developed economies very good news , especially since one powerful effect of ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to make it much easier to participate in the global division of labor now centered in the us , if america can grow as fast as it is now .
they must make these platforms serve us not only as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and citizens to avoid another public backlash . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and high levels of inequality – this must include using the unprecedented power of platform leadership to catalyze global-scale solutions . behind the meat of the producer of artificial-meat celebrated earlier this year . rather than focus on meeting rising demand for meat by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies did in the past , it – and similar companies , such as impossible foods – is working to help reduce overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . becoming scale wiser about what , but this is propelling the latest transition in corporate stakeholdership .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s 11th ministerial conference . the meeting to be unlike any other is set . with the united states , which has historically led the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy . its language is often vague , and usually delivered , but only at the last minute is the agreement of some kind . . however , the outcome could be even more disappointing , with that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign , reach even a symbolic agreement . delegates this time .
in 1998 , i introduced such law . , poland . exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania is similar norms . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help to advance nationalist narratives , which can prove very handy for politicians looking to win popular support . accrued substantial electoral support , thanks in part to past tragedies for political ends its exploitation is for one , the pis . than that of poland extreme cases is there .
instead , have opted for a mixture of higher capital requirements for leading banks and pre-funding of deposit insurance by a special levy on banks , the reform proposals . there to vary adequacy requirements for capital counter-cyclically , little appetite for proposals seems . this would to in good years , which could then be drawn down in bad years , i be created . , enable capital buffers . admittedly , there are difficulties with all proposals to restrict the scope of “ risky ” banking , especially in the context of a global economy with free capital mobility . as is frequently pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there will be plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – the us patient protection and affordable care act , president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in extending insurance coverage to millions of americans who would not otherwise have it . and , contrary to critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed up health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing discussions with india over intellectual property . appears undermine his own signature reform determined , owing from the powerful us pharmaceutical lobby to pressure and here .
likewise , cutting fiscal support ( via government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and enable resources to be redirected to new sectors that facilitate services and urban employment ; but this would exacerbate – at least at first – today ’s demand shortfall . the way is not forward . , slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting to transformation through austerity achieve . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have convincingly shown that an economy in transition requires strong aggregate demand to pull resources into new sectors . structural adjustment will stall , and will sputter capital formation if both the old and new sectors of an economy are in a slump . aggregate demand for robust is always essential to successful transformation .
london – how radically will digital currencies change our methods of exchange and the way that we think about money ? these questions the world economic forum and other international institutions commanding attention are now . with innovation in digital payments barreling ahead . following iran 's second most powerful leader the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . interests elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us . a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to save the israeli-palestinian peace process is about to end in failure . though achieving a substantive settlement was always a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to preserve even the façade of a “ peace process ” that was all process and no peace . and that might not be such a bad thing . the negotiations are failing for several reasons , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including the us . since while escalating its demands , especially regarding the stationing of israeli troops in the jordan valley , the talks of the latest round began . , israel has accelerated construction .
her request was refused , as was her earlier plea in 2006 to suspend her sentence until her two small sons reached the age of 14 – a request she was entitled to make under russian law . after their arrest in 2003 , his partner , platon lebedev , were executive vice president is aleksanyan . he was subsequently disbarred and in april 2006 , she was arrested . . by that time , aleksanyan was was withheld for which , aids . was ill . . in december 2008 , the moscow city court approved his release on bail of 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 at the time ) .
moreover , they it to happen by the end of the year to prevent further damage from big tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 , i need . . that both sides start steps symbolic immediately taking requires timeline . . as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text as the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” remove retaining tariffs provisions unilaterally re-imposing tariffs if the us concludes that china is not honoring the agreement , and after the agreement is signed . should be china . and it should add a commitment that china will execute the agreement in a way that is “ consistent with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ”
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies became what they are by traveling the well-worn path of industrialization . a progression of manufacturing industries – textiles , steel , automobiles – emerged from the ashes of the traditional craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . only but an unprecedented rise in economic productivity became factory . , peasants . and ultimately to political democracy to mass politics . , the movement of labor led . processing had services in its place over time .
would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been an uncontrolled military escalation an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define 12 months of the coming , its commentators as in previous years . if the selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
and this average does not the fukushima include of course . indeed , when compared to other energy sources , than oil , coal , and natural gas systems in terms of fatalities nuclear power ranks , second only to hydroelectric dams . there have since the disaster of chernobyl , 57 accidents been . while only a few involved fatalities , those that did collectively killed more people than have died in commercial us airline accidents since 1982 . another index of nuclear-power accidents – this one including costs beyond death and property damage , such as injured or irradiated workers and malfunctions that did not result in shutdowns or leaks – documented 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 .
this may once the us as a reliable protector and fear of china turns into a panic , it 's no longer . , you 're so easy . no longer . unlike some of her predecessors as chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany , is wary of russia ’s strategic designs . there is no doubt that russia and china will benefit , at least in the short term , from america ’s abdication of leadership . by this are not too worried . , some people . even paris than washington or new york , or to berlin is closer . . , russia .
but , if negotiated well is a deal . , the end brings significantly more benefits than costs to result . with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and the millions of people displaced by more than a half-century of fighting , and this would be the case . an historic land-reform program were included in the deal . for his opposition allies , deal concerns the main objection it addresses the question of transitional justice , how and uribe . negotiators decided that the unconditional application of justice would not be possible .
it was right to join the fight against isis , and to rescue the yazidis from a massacre , but for example , the us was wrong to iraq in 2003 invade . it was wrong to reduce the city to dust , but it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because the forces opposed to assad lacked the necessary popular support , and the us was not prepared to help them win that support . they probably would not have survived under an isis caliphate , and because they were effective fighters with strong support from their own people , syrian kur@@ ds helping was a good idea . . elsewhere , it is japanese korean defense strengthen south . is right . , but obviously wrong to threaten a nuclear war .
began of a bankrupt communist ideology collapse at the end of the cold war is the trouble . the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized was , so discarded communism . the individual became the ultimate agent of change – an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such an individual ’s identity is not derived from class interests or other sociological characteristics , but from the logic of the market , which dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as a producer , a consumer , or a voter . placed like central banks and competition authorities , which have been intentionally separated and made independent from politics on a pedestal and has been reported . , actually , economics .
madrid june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact . indeed , while there were some grievances about transparency during the campaign process , democracy prevailed , with a stunning 86 % of eligible voters turning out – a rate rarely seen in europe . the rest of the world – and especially the european union – should take note . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needed to amend the constitution . moreover , by giving the peoples ’ democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – more than 10 % of the vote , they enabled the party to enter parliament for the first time , with representation throughout the country , not just in kurd-majority areas .
the right to bring along his or her family members has as well if is a successful application . will obtain the right for other family members to follow later , germany in the not-unjustified hope . send their kids . , arab families . will have to deal with the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come , germany . in order to distribute the burden more equitably , germany tried to have a european quota system instituted to allocate applicants among the eu ’s member countries . but germany ’s eu partners rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ”
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race needs to understand that national opinion polls do not provide an accurate picture of how the election might turn out . thanks to america ’s electoral college , it ’s not who wins the most votes nationwide that matters in the end , but who wins in which states . awarded a certain number of votes in the electoral college , its population size depending is each state . the presidency wins the candidate 270 electoral votes crosses the threshold . . of its electoral votes , the vote of popular 50.1 % is awarded 100 % .
new york – the prospect that the us federal reserve will start exiting zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fear of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ currency , bond , and stock markets . the concern is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 that the end of its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy was forthcoming , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging countries ’ financial markets and economies . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states and the ensuing likely rise in the value of the dollar could , it is feared , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars in the last few years , they will now face an increase in the real local-currency value of these debts , while rising us rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thus increasing debt-service costs further . but , although the prospect of the fed raising interest rates is likely to create significant turbulence in emerging countries ’ financial markets , the risk of outright crises and distress is more limited .
he failed to multilateral solutions promote realistic american unilateralism faced . because he also failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush , that grew . , ra@@ c became isolated on the contrary despite being right about iraq . the very charges so often levelled against george w. bush 's america , france appears increasingly arrogant , of the righteousness of its views and the universality of its model , a nation convinced under chirac . to the european commission new , his errors over iraq in his approach , chirac . france was powerfully represented , with holding the portfolio of trade for pascal lamy on the old commission headed by romano prodi .
and the expanding global population – set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources still further . ensure access to safe , affordable water and sanitation for all is necessary . is urgent action . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , energy , and environmental facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . take the lead in ensuring water resources scarce careful management and sustainable use should be governments . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – are dependent on uninterrupted supplies .
while iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad has recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran has faced similar economic difficulties before – in the 1980 ’s , oil exports fell significantly amid the country ’s eight-year war with iraq , and in 1986-2000 global oil prices were extremely low – and handled them relatively well . the embargo of oil have made particularly excruciating is four factors . when world oil prices are rising is more painful . , prohibiting oil exports . have in the oil price resulting from a massive increase , ahmadinejad
not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while a party to the npt , the israelis will say , but it also has put israel ’s destruction high on its agenda . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . across-the-board nuclear equality can , in the end , only boost to iran ’s nuclear claims . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which has been committed to a strategy of nuclear opacity , both see themselves as nuclear states and want the world to accept that status . moreover , israel never tested a nuclear weapon , and has unequivocally accepted the nuclear suppliers group ( nsg ) guidelines , which seek to stem proliferation through the control of nuclear exports . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east political environment changes in a radically positive way .
whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest step towards floating its currency , one has to admire its strategic brilliance . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when or what is going to happen next . protectionists in the united states and europe , huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods to slap , have been caught flat-footed . hindering delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations will be seen if they push their china-bashing too far and too fast . , but they want to keep bathing in press coverage . but no one knows whether china ’s baby step is the start of something much bigger , as china ’s authorities hint one day and deny the next .
and here , in particular , obama . will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . his intention will be a reliable and unsurprising partner appear on the contrary . hollande is unlikely to be less friendly with america than was sarkozy , regarded by many as france ’s most pro-us president . hollande supported the military intervention in libya in 2011 , and has joined the condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close political allies recently declared that should the united nations security council approve military intervention in syria , france “ could envision ” participating in that effort .
deflation -- the prices of a ongoing decline steady -- cut spending and hoard cash gave businesses and consumers incentives . . it might trigger a chain of big bankruptcies that would destroy confidence in the financial system , providing further incentives to hoard , and to service their debt , reduced businesses and banks ability . . . contemplate unemployment , and for a much longer time than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician or economist had ever dared , and demand low and falling can remain such strong incentives for ho@@ ard . . hence the keynesian solution : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and reduced taxes ) to keep the economy from ever approaching the precipice where deflation becomes possible . but if this it haunting us now is solved over 50 years ago . , the issue is ?
been forcibly uprooted of the 50 million children who live outside their own countries or have been internally displaced , and and they 're facing new threats . millions are threatened with abuse , exploitation and worse ; are undernourished and millions of children . it is reality , this is not true . the united nations – with support from countries such as sweden , and by working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef – is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but that system as never before , cascading crises the quantity complexity and are testing .
to this end , a coalition of african countries , supported by the united nations economic commission for africa and the new climate economy , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive and sustainable growth path . the process support will be partnership with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector . will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity that climate change africa poses the un secretary-general ’s climate summit next month should be just such a moment , with countries committing to step up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , so as to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . their own contributions on others to ramp have every incentive to set the bar high . given their heightened vulnerability .
the rejection of the european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , according to all evidence , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than it was a rejection of europe . the general instability of social relations – most importantly , but not only , of employment – is slowly becoming intolerable for a growing part of the population in many developed countries , not just in europe . and there can not be a stable economic order – at least not in democratic countries – if electorates reject its underpinnings . capitalism could be reconstructed after world war ii because it was buttressed by three necessary types of regulation : social security , which served as a principal stabilizer , at least in the developed countries ; keynesian tools to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policy aimed at stimulating general consumption , without which the genius of capitalism – mass production – does not work . but all that broke of the rich , developed countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists like milton friedman , the realignment began around 7@@ 000 . .
at the same time , in an age of internet rumors and fake news , the world today can look a little unmoored from history . a sense of real risk could be created that . which seem to be the minds of central bankers more , it has other effects . is inflation targeting . in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target inflation rate because it “ communicates the central bank ’s intentions , ” which would “ reduce uncertainty . ” the announced rate should be substantially positive , they wrote , because if officials tried to get it close to zero , any mistake could result in deflation , which “ might endanger the financial system and precipitate an economic contraction . ”
berkeley – with its ambitious made in china 2025 strategy , china has made clear its objective to secure global economic leadership in advanced technology industries . this places it in direct competition with the united states – which currently leads in those industries – in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial and military applications . it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power ; is seeking more than to compete commercially with the us with its investments in such dual-use technologies . and it has deployed a variety of methods – including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition for joint ventures with chinese partners , evasion of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from the us and other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations .
disintegrating yugoslavia , and bringing german reunification fallen . soon after , czechoslovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave rise to the czech republic and slovakia , which – together with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . damage all economies would be a war of trade . but the us – which is relatively less dependent on foreign markets , possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than other countries – would do better than most others in a contracting world economy . have suffered , while those in the us have held their own , financial markets chinese .
contribute to our currency stabilizing the euro . would promote stability in the irish economy . is the treaty . it would allow us to increase inward foreign direct investment the existing flow increase ireland confidence . ratification would also give us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , should we ever need it . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy as we work our way out of the bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and return to the markets . the fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting throughout the eurozone most importantly .
lacks even rudimentary safeguards of the rest of the world , and legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive . after exploring this issue with legislators in several countries over the past couple of months , it has become abundantly clear that many do not have a full grasp of the myriad issues that need to be considered . incomplete information lobbying efforts requires doing so . , and it is a difficult subject to address . young companies should view ethics not but as a core concern as a marketing gimmick in the short term . of review process involving people who can assess all of the implications of a great-sounding idea , or some officers . invest should be all organizations .
hifazat derives its support mainly from the rural poor ; are educated mainly urban , and middle class , young people at sha@@ h@@ bag . traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus the peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but , all too often , clichés become established because they are true . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies are closer to the shahbag protesters than to the hifazat counter-demonstrators . because have significant public support for both points of view , a difficult path , but it must .
the real bombshell , however , was the sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system – not at some later date , but right now . none has to challenge the existing order is widely enough . been adopted , but cryptocurrencies have been around for over a decade . could change that with more than two billion mobilize monthly active users is potential . governments should use advance that serves the public good , a form of digital currency by the opportunity now that the company has thrown down the gauntlet . the monetary current system even the staunchest defenders will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone .
before i in 1985 became soviet leader . , relations between the cold superpowers war had hit rock bottom . i was still able to constructive spirit reservoir through constant ou@@ tre@@ ach create , reagan . to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order leaders with the vision boldness are what seem to be lacking today . to action , the chernobyl disaster economic constraints helped us . have in japan elicited a response of similar today , and the disastrous meltdown at fu@@ ku@@ d why ?
is the traditional month when parliaments the summer recess , august . it how so enfeebled examine offers a moment . . across europe , it is not only british prime minister tony blair who is accused of " presidentialism " nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charge in the current german election campaign . does not even like being prime minister called is prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy .
will foreclose development strategies that worked in the past , and others that could work in the future , and with a particular , neo-liberal model of economic development that remains untested , external disciplines new set . a cost for which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward is in the formulation of development strategy , national autonomy . the narrowing . second much safer international financial system will make new policy , it is doubtful that . as long as capital will be hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles , the international economy will remain large national governments held the liquid assets relative . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reforms in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency on short-term capital flows , increasing rather then reducing systemic risks .
many news stories about female ceos and other high-achieving women are coded with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked into their new roles ( and thus do not deserve them ) , inherited them from male relatives or spouses ( and thus do not really hold the reins of power ) , or will not be there for long . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in the case of ceos , they also reduce their value to their companies . and all of these clichés were reproduced in the coverage of barra ’s appointment at gm . for example , cnn covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never be used with a man at the top , for whom , presumably , hard work , talent , ambition , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack . ”
into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 , i transform suddenly . expected china is few observers . but the country ’s repressive turn over the past decade has nonetheless been disappointing to witness . the china of the communist party continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life , and state-owned enterprises are still favored . how long this will last is anyone ’s guess . will mark the centenary of its founding in 2021 , but dynasties come and go .
to power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least , in the countries of post-communist of europe 's elections have brought groups . this these forces of political to compare hamas is n't . . nevertheless , one must a winning movement with quite a few elected members in israeli prisons and others who are not likely to get permission to enter the country in which they were elected , so that the new parliament can not function properly wonder . three democracy things tells us . all of this . solve fundamental problems , first , elections .
but only one such “ patriot ” was granted the honor of being allowed to perform this act . that how his autograph is asked for lugovoi . is . this should not , of course , be taken to mean that the patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement concede the justice of the british allegations . the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by television propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia can jangle within the breast of ordinary russians without the slightest dissonance . we proved so unfathomable to others , so unyielding to every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length is the mystery of russian thought . are obviously facing .
and it makes persistent inequality traps from one generation to the next , opportunity inequality reduces social mobility . . · to remove barriers to opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize disadvantage . moreover , inequality largely begins in childhood , i given . , governments must invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . only by supporting the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that inequalities in one generation are n’t passed on to the next . · such investments will require additional domestic resources .
some being made are should be pointed out . spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the crisis began . areas like pensions important reforms has grasped crucially . has cut spending by relative gdp to a amount of larger than any country in europe since world war ii , greece . other reforms – especially political reforms – will be hotly contested .
two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families borrowed freely , have long since burst . but the aftershocks linger : household-debt loads were still at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and the personal-saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . consumers have not their monetary and fiscal authorities taken the bait , understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair . instead , they have cut back on spending . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditure have averaged a mere 0.8 % over the past five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in consumer demand growth in the post-world war ii era .
although his motivation , at least in part , may have been a desire for social justice , perón was , in effect , bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and wealth . with his beautiful and outspoken wife – a “ woman of the people ” – at his side , perón was able to persuade voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally change the country . he as his word was as good . . perón ’s government nationalized banks and railroads , increased the minimum wage and improved living standards , reduced the national debt ( for a while at least ) , and revived the economy . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , though the move toward autarky eventually undermined growth , causing the country to lose its position among the world ’s richest .
in 2002 , i abandoned the currency . was eventually among political mayhem street riots . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future . once brazil recovers , as it will , i 'm controversial even more . will likely be cap . it is not hard to imagine the next administration – whenever it comes about – perceiving the cap as an obstacle to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , because the economic case for it is weak in the absence of extreme credibility problems .
economic growth market prices of stock may justify part of this . in the inflationary 1970s and 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment was bad for share prices , a strange wisdom conventional developed . it felt triggering a stock market rout high interest rates provoke , prosperity . 's therefore good for shares for profits , prosperity : while experts spent the last two years propounding this thesis the market quietly restored an older , more common-sense rule . here is one message from the markets worth pondering , even for non-investors : political confidence may be at a low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-shocked by the last recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by the market 's behavior the years ahead are more likely to resemble the stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s than the crisis-ridden decades from 1973 to 1989 .
elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) used its agenda over several years to coordinate economic reform . this task assumed critical importance due to the opening of country to democracy in 1999 . another tool business can use to influence public policy is a legislative advisory program . these programmes require to shape legislation : available papers economic analysis , and background sound for *
the collapsed of currencies , and collapsed the banking sectors . the imf predicted that thailand and the others would achieve positive growth in 1998 ( 3 percent in the case of thailand , for example ) . now , the imf thailand will shrink by around 3 percent acknowledges . . save the economy did little . is its medicine . the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand , so that they would pay back the foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds .
the obama administration knows the iron law of american politics – “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” – as well as anyone else . nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an attempt at distraction ; it also sends the message that the domestic-policy impasse is not his fault . so expect plenty of coming months in foreign-policy news . american voters are right election-year tactics aside . obama has performed much better in foreign policy than in domestic policy , which is all the more surprising given the weak hand that he was dealt : an america that had lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model .
but it is just one aspect of europe ’s urgent need to import people from africa and asia . europeans will also see the dismantling of their welfare states and social security systems ; the cherished “ european model ” of pensions , healthcare , and unemployment benefits risks being replaced by the despised and widely feared “ american model . ” this is not , needless to say , because europeans crave the rigors of america ’s less cosseted social conditions , but because it ’s the only way that european governments will be able to stay afloat financially . the root cause of all these developments is europe ’s population shrinkage . the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have been discussing for a decade or more is now exploding .
they feel confirmed in their belief that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of business . and they how instead of acting together , europe , japan , and america display the weakness of disunity , i watch with glee . . be allowed to get away with its provocations should a state of rogue ? the trouble is : in most cases it will . of military intervention short are imperfect and , to be remotely efficient , require a degree of international solidarity that is only generated in exceptional circumstances is the instruments of coercion that states dispose .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to recovery in europe . european policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness , ” and genuinely appear to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . this largely explains why germany is routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy . but even in traditionally export-led economies economic growth is driven not by the ability to capture a growing share of global markets by productivity growth . while imports must , of course , be financed by exports , the focus on trade competitiveness is drawing attention away from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
and the effect of agglomeration will be more important battery cells to the overall value of electric cars . this would be a momentous shift . including supply of cobalt , an essential raw material in battery manufacturing , the chain of value of electric cars is currently governed by china . as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells , the united states 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” in nevada ) , and europe just 4 % . recycling old electronics , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and mineral deposits discovering alternative develop battery production . could still be europe .
so that entrepreneurs can take more risks , reduce red tape need , governments . but to well-funded education systems , who had access . , as apple , facebook , and twitter , breakthrough technology companies depends on humans . and while there is a growing “ tech for good ” sector in europe , it will succeed only if it is supported by up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public outlays . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking – especially their fiscal thinking – to put people first . not only encouraging higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics , end is make their central objective to maximize human wellbeing governments .
have to come from the top if the case is to be made within each country for more open markets , and for help to available to those facing adjustment be made . will be the initiative . no country can be expected to carry the burden alone ; will give all countries . pro-trade forces can the political process , talk up . for example , it is untenable in rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment are effectively able to block a deal to open new markets for services and manufactures , which account for more than 90 % of employment . toward the opportunities of global integration , turn the debate . rather than emphasizing exceptions could help the pro-@@ trade voices in developing countries .
indeed , iran ’s prompt support for iraq ’s shia-led government was partly intended to preempt competition from regional adversaries . but that there is a middle way , the intervention of iranian critics seem to believe . does not necessarily a loss of iranian influence translate is a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq . be it , if a broader reconsideration of policy is needed to quell the is threat , iran has mali@@ ki in favor of haider al-abadi countenanced . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are growing that regional overreach could trigger a long list of dangerous consequences .
authorities because learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 for lessons were ready for harvey . in houston . that while killed during harvey was at least 88 . , storm caused 13@@ ,@@ 8 deaths . . is even more striking is india lessons learned impact . in october 2013 , odisha state residents were cyclone pha@@ il@@ in the arrival alerted early . . the storm made landfall by the time , many people evacuated had already .
for catalan separatists , this means they now face what the political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ? and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent that from happening ? catalonia fiscal autonomy is the only solution , and independence impossible . but this , too , is the term of near unlikely .
even that futile scenario might be optimistic , as it assumes that talks get off the ground – an impossible feat , if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not just unjust ; they are a violation of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted nearly unanimously last year ( the us , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution demanded “ that israel immediately and completely cease all settlement activities in the occupied palestinian territory , including east jerusalem ” – activities that amount to a “ flagrant violation under international law . ” any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both sides – concessions that leaders on both sides will need to convince their respective publics to accept . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , who has been tasked with settling the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , seem to understand this .
of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy , the chinese authorities are aware . their domestic legitimacy basis : economic growth risk and they 're not prepared . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called one belt , one road ) – which xi has baptized “ the project of the century ” – is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to strengthen commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , taking advantage of the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” however , china is not openly the liberal order foundations calling into question in doing so . the remarkable communiqué from world leaders participating in the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to the promotion of “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” and the empowerment of women .
whether the new leaders , as early as next month , succeed in a new effort to adopt the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires is , the question . focus on the essentials is proceed the way of best . part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is merely a compendium of the existing eu treaties , which – because these treaties will remain in force regardless of whether they are part of the new document – can be decoupled from the rest . can be postponed is the charter of fundamental rights , of the stalled document , i part . . to be sure , this would be painful because , as the eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen without clearly defined fundamental rights .
this is true of the nations of europe . there 's a more profound reason : it is much stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america , and needed today more than ever is the transatlantic alliance . . but for europe . forget there or here for the short-term electoral politics . this is essentially the values of an alliance : democracy , liberty , and the rule of law in the long term . will govern the twenty-first century , opens across boundaries of nation and culture , which values as the changes of world ?
we 've been an uncontrolled military escalation an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked 12 months that will define the coming . , its commentators as in previous years . it will weigh on the present for many years to come , what happens in 2020 is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . a few months ago , all on charges of selling state property to private companies at a loss , you brought to court . were , and the state petroleum corporation . taken together , these cases point to a high level of state capture – a form of corruption , rife in former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors use insiders to gain control of public institutions and assets .
a minority coalition that included the greens would force the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policy , which would be unnecessary otherwise , given the inability of the spd , die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . prevent becoming dependent on it in order , avoid a minority . , and mer@@ one will try . in exactly that reason a government such , the fdp , for its part , would like participate . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . would necessarily necessarily a bad be , the composition of whatever
one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used their credit cards to buy about $ 1 billion worth of goods that they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some of those european and american branded goods are actually manufactured in china ) . with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one fourth of that in the united states is still a low-income country . , china . there much poverty is still , although beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous . it is revealing that to achieve the five-year plan ’s goal of eliminating poverty by 2020 , which requires reducing the number of poor people by 55 million , the poverty line is defined as just $ 354 a year , or less than one dollar a day . chinese corporations ’ high level of debt could be a source of financial instability , although several officials stressed that they were not worried .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historical record of failed one-party regimes might benefit from reading leon trotsky , who knew something about revolutions . viewed as inevitable once they are toppled is their demise . , but dictatorships are as indestructible before they fall regarded . fear of contemplating the unknown is another explanation . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – state failure and civil chaos – could be far worse than the status quo . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous .
began to the oracle corporation as a competitor , neusoft . after moving on to produce car audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft 's ceo , began hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machines ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a business of new was born . that neusoft could link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a range of digital sensors , liu realized . sensors attached little personal computers looks like the equipment of neusoft .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not just in the eurozone , but across all of europe . inside germany , there used be endless debates about german identity – what one historian called “ the continual dispute about what being german might mean . ” but , in foreign-policy terms , post-war west germany – and , later , reunified germany – was utterly predictable : never against the west ; always for more europe . now , the “ berlin republic ” is very secure about its identity – and seemingly at sea in its dealings with the world . for this change , there are structural reasons .
and the oversight that warped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that fluid motion could efficiently transport heat within the earth ’s interior – turned out to be critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift . the risk-taking of the benefits of potential is supported by startup companies . these are to produce breakthrough innovations have done . while only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive for four or more years . is known for having supported brilliant blunders is who led ibm through decades of strong growth , tom watson , . as he put it , “ we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful risks … . we must forgive mistakes which have been made because someone was trying to act aggressively in the company ’s interest . ”
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been the uncontrolled military escal@@ ation of an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked the coming will define that 12 months . , its commentators as in previous years . if this year 's selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . comes from netanyahu is the threat of biggest .
according to putin , he rooted for trump ( but of course did not interfere on trump ’s behalf ) because they shared a desire to improve bilateral relations . now , more than ever , putin needs america ’s friendship . his approval rating has since plummeted to 45 % was a march landslide reelected president . russians resent the mounting economic insecurity brought about by the sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also been inflamed by the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which includes an increase in the retirement age .
of course , wall street ( whose interests the us treasury represents ) profits from capital market liberalization : they make money as capital flows in , as it flows out , and in the restructuring that occurs in the resulting havoc . in south korea , the imf urged the sale of the country ’s banks to american investors , even though koreans had managed their own economy impressively for four decades , with higher growth , more stability , and without the systemic scandals that have marked us financial markets with such frequency . we bought the banks , until korea recovered , and then resold them , he held on to them . , in capital gains , i reaping billions . in some cases . in its rush to have westerners buy the banks , the imf to ensure that south korea could recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation forgot one detail : . is not , that they had greater expertise in tax avoidance ; whether us investors had greater expertise in banking in emerging markets may be debatable .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of the greatest philosophers of my generation , died . par@@ fit been voted the most important living anglophone philosopher was only a year in a philosophy leading website poll . i i began to study more than 50 years ago for the subject have known . of all the philosophers . , parfit was the closest to a genius . he had already thought of every response i could make to his arguments , considered several possible replies , and knew the objections to each reply as well as the best counters to those objections : was play a grandmaster with chess , getting into a philosophical argument with him . parfit was not a household name .
i the halls and wards found deserted and barren on my rounds . , but the hospital appears well staffed and adequately equipped . were available for few therapeutic and diagnostic options another regional hospital would require even a basic test like a cat scan . but controlling china 's aids crisis is the obstacle of greatest . may not be under-equipped hospitals . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures and the stigma attached to a disease that is often sexually transmitted .
that large export flows of palestinian labor to israel reduce the capacity of the palestinian economy to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness , comparing these two simulations the outcomes . does a development strategy based on the export of labor results in a lower growth potential for the palestinian economy , i suggested . is also these simulations . but the latter strategy than in the situation where the israeli labor market is gradually reopened for palestinian labor will remain in the west bank and gaza , average incomes level . this access to the israeli labor market to palestinian workers palestinian society confirms a short term welfare cost . . could goods exports rather than labour boost , what trade policies ?
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many hoped that the economic decline he had overseen would soon be reversed . but the economy is showing no signs of recovering , the ongoing crisis currency thanks a year and a half later . could a cryptocurrency of blockchain-based be the what ails cure zimbabwe ? the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after iran 's second leader most powerful its targeted killing . interests elsewhere in the world , you growing challenges . a time would occur and this shift .
but , in this case , when the son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serves a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , is he not willingly reflecting those sins ? totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese – desire to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world their superiority . china believes that it has found its own model to develop and modernize , and its rulers regard the games in the same way as the nazis and leonid brezhnev did , as a means of “ selling ” their model to a global audience . were politically tone-deaf in choosing an architect put historical connotations of such in whose name , the chinese . the officials who chose him did not matter . is probably speer itself the name .
because it stands for noble and universal values , but we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial superiority . is by noting . is the way to square this apparent circle . macron can proudly call himself a french patriot because france gave the world liberté , égalité , and fraternité . for respecting the rights of immigrants because respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can be proud , the dutch election could argue . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has called constitutional patriotism ( others have called it civic patriotism ) . this philosophical position has practical implications .
carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its ability to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . need , especially us president donald trump to overcome strong resistance from dictators and warlords , not only even from leaders elected will be succeed to the ic@@ c . in april , when the icc was determining whether to proceed with its inquiry into war crimes in afghanistan – including any that may have been perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration revoked the visa of the court ’s chief prosecutor . it can neither bow to such pressure , nor allow its deficient performance to continue , if the icc is to fulfill the role for which it was created . instead , its leaders – especially its chief prosecutor , the gambian attorney fatou bensouda – must take recent criticism as motivation , and prove that they are up to the task .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates for two years . the reasons are clear : since the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries are maintaining very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-growth emerging economies are unwinding the expansionary policies that they adopted during the recession . has spurred huge capital it 's likely to continue , the latter . flows from the former is this asymmetry . emerging economies fear that this flood of capital will drive up their currencies ’ exchange rates , in addition to fueling current-account deficits and asset bubbles , which past experience has taught them is a sure recipe for future crises . the problem is compounded by the fact that one of the countries undertaking expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues the paramount global currency .
greenpeace , along with other organizations opposed to the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of beta carotene , which is converted in the human body into vitamin a. moore ’s mortality figures seem to be on the high side , but there is no doubting the seriousness of vitamin a deficiency among children , especially in parts of africa and southeast asia . it half of what die within 12 months is 250,000-500,000 pre-school children every year . causes hurt . according to the world health organization . although one as a result of vaccination , that is declining . , the susceptibility to diseases like measles , still a significant cause of death in young children increased . is also the deficiency . lack of flowers is also a major factor in high rates of maternal mortality during and childbirth of pregnancy in some countries .
so our current global economic predicament teach us does history . , what lessons ? in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” in product markets , which in turn generated excess supply of workers in labor markets , excess demand for certain assets in financial markets , i saw . , mill . was clear for the implication of this if you relieved the excess demand for financial assets , you also cured the excess supply of goods and services ( the shortfall of aggregate demand ) and the excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) .
no single actor – be it a government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of investors – can solve today ’s really big problems alone . it as diverse as health care , education , and the fight against climate change , they seen in areas . is a gap . . that how for maximum flexibility to be channeled into non-profits , directed into private investments , or used to help influence policy debates allowing funds . , the chan zuckerberg initiative was designed . is . similarly , the bec has pledged to boost the work of others by taking “ a flexible approach to early stage , providing seed , angel and series a investments , with the expectation that once these investments are de-risked , traditional commercial capital will invest in the later stages . ” of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems on their own .
seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class is perhaps inspired by thomas piketty writings , us populists . the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place , where a person ’s economic fate does not depend quite so much on where they happen to have been born . but that in its excessive adherence to globalism , the us has sown the seeds of its own political and economic destruction , a view of more has been reported . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is who he can do something about it , someone thinks . . the aim is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to create a system that will extend us dominance .
and bolstering conventional south korean and us forces enhance deterrence would be one approach . but more conventional power would add little to the capable forces already on the ground , and bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would only make both sides more anxious ( and offshore us naval nuclear forces already pack a sufficient punch to reinforce deterrence ) . another approach would seek this communication could enhance the assumption . to normalize diplomatic relations . energy economic to prop up the regime north korea could hold relations hostage to such outsize demands as withdrawal of us forces from the region but this scenario . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation that it needs to remain in power .
so the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – took a left-wing form . the story is similar in the main two exceptions to right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . international monetary fund european institutions imposed austerity policies was the main political fault line in greece . in spain , most immigrants until recently culturally similar latin american countries came . was it had elsewhere , the breeding ground . in both countries
to resolve the case of the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other terrorism issues met with libyan counterparts . is american negotiators and british . to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to pariah status was agreed in the quo of quid . this was coupled with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally all efforts renounced w@@ md . eight years later , and a us predator drone pinned him . , qaddafi his demise met .
was accompanied by a decrease from nearly six children per woman to less than four is approximately 13 % of botswana 's incredible annual per capita income growth . a country 's standard of living is population growth rapid . , why ? the math is simple : more people means that ( on average ) everyone gets less . a growing population dilutes not only physical capital accumulation , but also human capital . goes down as because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in the education of each child to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success , their quantity goes . is the quality of the poor households children .
they need to pick leaders who can speak for them and negotiate for them ; they can not do that as a brigade of flower children like it or not . the modernizers need to form a coherent force – and most likely a political party – rather than simply relying on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of the crowd to govern the country . that does not should abandon the cause for which they are fighting , activists , i mean . . but it does mean understanding that even democracy has many rules – ideally rules that a majority has chosen . but they are mostly not chosen directly ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives who can argue and negotiate in person , reflecting the overall preferences of those who elected them . that may sound a little too much like the old system , but it does n’t have to be .
will new job opportunities create in investments in infrastructure , energy , and technology ; and elder care in aging societies is growing demand for health care . the sectoral and occupational distribution of these opportunities given , women may be take advantage of them slightly better . women could have access to 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to 19 % for men , assuming and sectoral patterns for the current occupational gender hold . where women are well represented , it is expected in sectors like health care . is the advantage of slight for women . in fact , in many countries , women account for over 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of potential job gains for men ) .
putin witnessed cour@@ ting culture , i once . it was new year ’s eve 2003 , during a concert at the newly opened house of music in moscow . and his famous wife , the one-time dissident cellist and conductor mstislav rostropovich sitting was directly across the aisle . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store – thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were obviously flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and by their proximity to power ) .
but gdp growth soon deteriorating quickly began . the chinese government in november monetary and fiscal policy beginning in an effort to revive growth in a difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis . but it too late was too little . . had already been declining for eight months , and a total of 51 months remained negative . , with cpi growth beginning to recover after 39 months , c@@ pi began by 1998 . the government should loosening earlier , and more forcefully have switched . an obvious lesson .
so have we now moved from piketty ’s r > g world to blanchard ’s r < g world ? be reconciled may be their views . , if so ? no and is yes . is the answer . can indeed be reconciled , because they are talking about different interest rates is piketty and blanchard views . while blanchard focuses on the rate on low-risk government bonds , piketty the capital investments risky the return is concerned . .
there is no sign of tumbling dominoes , and have n't failed banks . this is prepared by raising more capital not because banks , but . on the contrary , compared to their likely future losses , european banks have raised relatively little capital recently – and much of this has been creative accounting , rather than truly loss-absorbing shareholder equity . to be expected was quiescent markets . , and that a greek debt restructuring would cause a financial meltdown . but how all the fuss in that case ?
the government , not individual companies , and the us germany are responsible for social benefits in the scandinavian countries . are avoided is whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs , economically irrational lock-in effects , that way . furthermore , benefits are generous enough to ensure that short periods of unemployment do n’t force workers to sell their homes or even cars . interest , but also indirectly the banks can not continue to pay their mortgages . protects is the system . new and more future-oriented jobs finding concentrate can instead of solving all sorts of economically caused private problems .
the irony is that their productive capacity former much has lost this advice . . but , having suffered currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility accumulate huge reserves . feel affected . . while financial globalization has not enhanced growth , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . meanwhile , national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis . public investment and social protection of basic can help to turn this around , by creating millions of jobs .
we 've already been at an un@@ controlled escalation military an interest for decades after all , iran and the . projects asked to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months for its commentators as in previous years . if the selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ to attack the institution of the family , to regard it with contempt or to doubt its important role , ” the pope and the grand imam state , “ is one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” the document asserts that the family is the “ fundamental nucleus of society and humanity ” and “ is essential in bringing children into the world , raising them , educating them , and providing them with solid moral formation and domestic security . ”
addis ababa – with almost 60 % of its population under the age of 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it are often left behind was young people . is widely recognized . . they frequently face inadequate economic opportunities and may also be socially or politically excluded . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . following most powerful leader of iran the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic situation in the far east – where russians number six million , and the population on the chinese side of the border is up to 120 million – is a source of anxiety in moscow . russia ’s economic decline has increased its concern about the rise of china . while trade has increased , investment lags , and russia ranks only tenth among china ’s export markets . as the economist recently reported , russia worries about becoming the alliance ’s junior partner – more dependent on china than china is on russia . according to feng yujun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship for us is the one with america .
florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known fable of the wolf and the lamb , the wolf easily could have eaten the lamb without a word , but prefers to set out his “ reasons . ” first , he scolds the lamb because he is muddying his drinking water ( even though the wolf was upstream ) . then he argues that last year the lamb had called him bad names ( but the lamb was only six months old ) . he action moves immediately after that ; the wolf then snarls that if it was not the lamb , it was his father . the wolf ’s “ justifications ” for his evil action were a luxury that he allowed himself .
arlington , virginia – the election left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to a military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing firebrand promising to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not talking about the 2016 us presidential election that put donald trump in power , but rather the 2018 election in brazil , won by the so-called trump of the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader . would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
she then quickly proceeded to give a long celebratory speech about the heroism of us soldiers “ fighting for freedom ” abroad . it seemed an odd – and to many offensive – transition : from king ’s great plea for civil rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés about the military . there just as there is something odd about the tea party movement itself , something was the entire event odd . , but then . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extremely wealthy men , including a couple of oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the super-rich and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , such as social security and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . despite view of a billionaire of oil the point , this agenda may seem selfish .
the start of his papacy finds the populist governments in a vulnerable situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . they all , of course , have their own identities and strengths , but they will miss the protection of chávez ’s global influence , as well as his subsidies . moreover , they overwhelming majority in which , they rule countries . . they believe that will provide francis i with considerable political leverage is the emotional attachment strong , although the degree of their religious commitment varies . latin america will no doubt be one of francis ’s priorities .
we must lead the world , by deed and by example . ” but obama can not do it alone – and , so far , neither the american public nor the us congress seems committed to reconnecting with its moral compass . it should be unacceptable , for example , for congress to block the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared by a committee of national-security officials . that no one is exempt from the possibility of us surveillance have stirred americans to demand a new approach , she edward snow@@ den . , not even the revelations by former intelligence contractor . the answer to the second major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will regain its economic momentum – also appears to be “ no , ” at least in the short term , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export - and investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its potential .
has been made , all in the last few years , however , remarkable progress and . moreover , someday we will know – via sequencing of the whole genome – about rarer genomic variations that are correlated with treatment response or side-effects . this has paved next-generation pharmacies the way . over time will get even faster , and genotyping can now in 20 minutes , i be done . . to determine appropriate dose , drug , or predilection for serious side-effects may be rapid to with a known pharmacogenomic profile , fill a drug for a prescription . .
the advantages of greatest competitive lie where , the financial crisis has made a new answer . from banks ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson was the need for a strong national government to bear the potential costs of a rescue . it is no longer best to be where the state has the deepest pockets , but to be subject to the most favorable regulatory regime . . small-scale governments in small territories very large banks are vulnerable . big enough to like america or citigroup bank , handle be@@ ys is the us .
large numbers of extinctions occurred there , too , but we have yet to do comparable analyses on the fate of caribbean and indian ocean islands following first human contact . the extinction of the pace of rapid continued early european exploration . increasing as taxonomists describe new species from skeletal remains they find in caves , for example , where bones survive is to have expired between 1500 and 1800 , species knew . the number . these far from complete are searches . linneaus invented the modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , although naming did not get under way until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 .
syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all civil and proxy wars a mix dealing are . the nuclear pact iran at best manages the iranian power of one aspect , and only for a limited duration . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; but it , along with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . constitutes not just a humanitarian tragedy , but also to countries in the region , an and strategic economic burden in europe is the plight of millions of refugees . and europe is already confronting many significant challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth .
to take action for forward-thinking politicians is these movements . that we still have a long way to go continues to grow . , however , the crisis of climate . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina , europe have been north . . deadly wildfires have taken lives and destroyed in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia by property dollars worth billions . droughts have struck in kenya and somalia ; and the main water shortages suffered is and south africa afghanistan . .
this is the beginning of an important dialogue . are high is both africa and the us stakes . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with the us will be vital for africa ’s continued growth and development . generations to come have implications . will make now . we owe it to our descendants – and to the silicon savannah entrepreneurs already leading the charge – to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with the concept and the reality of strategic power . such china is classical europe the balance-of-power games comfortable , and under louis xiv , the sun king in the seventeenth century . india is clearly in a category of different . in economic terms , india ’s confidence has been boosted by the way the western world now looks at it with a mixture of respect and greed : “ what kind of deals can i strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon be the largest of any country in the world ? ” yet , in order to understand india ’s political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in 1920 .
geographic regions across the political spectrum , social mobility views are not uniform . in both the us and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on matters of economic policy believe that there are equal opportunities for all children , and that the free-market economy in their country is fair . the opposite holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” markets may even generate more inequality will not ensure fairness . believe that left to their own devices , favor government intervention . . an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country where actual mobility is low – including the southeastern states of georgia , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
everybody leaves , turning into a ghost town to the place , and go of business for the grocer , coffee shop , and barber . caused by an industrial closure not only is the disruption . there throughout the us and outlets , several cities were many department-store chains and other retailers relatively small with headquarters spread . , once upon a time . providing to their network of stores to back-office services brought revenue into their town . is these headquarters . consolidation in the retail industry , wal@@ mart amazon and driven in part , has dealt with many companies but .
it would violate world trade organization rules , and the bat does n't have enough support even among republicans . the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , and they can not plug that hole with revenue savings from their health-care reform plan or with the $ 1.2 trillion that could have been expected from a bat . the republicans must now choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to the public debt ) and pursuing a much more modest reform . three reasons is unlikely . is the first scenario . first , the public debt of a increase of reckless will object fiscally conservative .
be tested over the longer run , though , owing to the fiscal and external imbalances , which were unaffected by the data revision will be such resilience . is that they add up is part of national income accounts for the analytical attractiveness . if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . current-account balance the export position net improves . but that in this case did n't happen . .
first , it climate change comes , when , the important thing look like you are doing something is . with massaging the data , countries that manage that can get away . the 2015 paris climate agreement of this is a great example . . countries made a grandiose commitment to keep the global increase in temperature well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all their promises together add up to less than 1 % of what ’s needed . new analysis shows that only 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – are actually meeting their commitments , in most cases because they promised very little .
methane vast quantities will release thawing siberian permafrost . as a result , billions of people home , of our planet , the vast areas could become un@@ relevant . earlier conferences of the unfccc signatories sought to reach legally binding agreements on emission reductions , at least for the industrialized countries that have produced most of the greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered – partly owing to us intransigence under president george w. bush – and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the us never signed ) . instead , the accord of copenhagen merely to cut their emissions by specific amounts asked countries for voluntary ple@@ dges . .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy and mandatory consultations in the event of a threat to any state ’s security . had such a mechanism been established , the ukraine of the worst events could been averted have . political leaders are , of course , to blame for filing away these and other “ european ideas ” in the archives . must also be shared with the entire european political class , civil-society institutions , and the media , but the blame . i not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes to a close is very difficult . have to admit . , but i am .
when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , to lead talks on energy at the un summit been asked . is which , has integrated the wind power of vast quantities into its electricity grid . sweden , which will run an industry workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant . and progress is hardly limited to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland is producing electric buses ; and austria is leading when it comes to green buildings . but it 's hit the accelerator time as european leaders increasingly recognize .
tolerance for other people ’s religion is the price paid for tolerance of one ’s own . fall as participation increases has taken . , prejudice . it has been in no one ’s interest to disturb this live-and let-live pragmatism for very long . one result of the deal is the paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with difference . ” because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are used to different sorts of people and so distinguish those differences that might damage the country from those that will not .
this reaching their full potential remains regions poor nations and small businesses . . based on our own experiences -- in mexico , which has opened up to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which is a leading aid donor and a major source of private investment in developing countries -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated and fixed . the entrepreneurial energy there : visit the tiniest town in the poorest country on market day and you will see the private sector in action is already gone . . they could drive their countries ' growth better than any aid agency , if small businesses could expand beyond the village square . this is why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and un development program administrator mark malloch brown asked us to lead a new commission on private sector and development , we agreed .
there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit . and yet , even if he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to carrying out frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a good fix on the president ’s psyche . he has be highly effective at keeping the bromance alive proved , and the track of the forthcoming summit so far . regardless of when the second summit occurs , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime .
frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified amid surging inequality . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state is failing to provide basic security : in july 2018 , an olympic ice-skating medalist , denis ten , was murdered in broad daylight in the center of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for trying to prevent his car mirrors from being stolen . all of this has made emigration an increasingly appealing option , especially for young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also turned up the heat on simmering social unrest , which has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended specifically to preempt popular protests ) .
whenever the kingdom to reduce public-sector hiring has tried . , but unemployment has increased . under the current incentives system , the authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity will actually destroy jobs occupied by saudis . the challenge of saudis creating jobs may seem like a problem of riches . some would do is to substitute saudi for foreign workers in existing positions requires all the kingdom . , i argue . . but will not do , simple substitution .
it transact without having to barter allows parties . , the point of entire of money . but many currencies can operate at the same time to generate economies of scale to have value . . doing so would be pointless , and it would make the economy far less efficient : the reason we do not to dollars in addition , use euros or yen . is obvious in the us . . it is utterly idiotic ; the very concept of money contradicts could operate together not only . . but so , too , substitute for fiat money could be a cryptocurrency single . is the idea . .
because facing the us at the negotiating table requires china to strengthen its own position above all , she to undermine these efforts . is the cool war . even as they hurt the global economy as a whole , the long-term threat to china caused by disruptions means ensuring . . was by the unfolding sino-american cool war and the cold war less cut is efforts to strengthen their own position become self-defeating when they undermine global stability and dynamism in an interconnected world , require both sides . will minimizing the fallout . the trade war threw this lesson into sharp relief .
that international cooperation could allow for rapid reduction of greenhouse gases , the paris conference studies ahead suggest . they also highlight the knock-on benefits that taking quick action on climate change could have , including reduction of local pollution , greater energy and food security , and faster innovation . to accelerate the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must be applicable to all countries ; include a common and consistent system for monitoring , reporting , and verification ; and provide strong economic incentives at a global scale . our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by the “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed or given a bonus depending on the vehicle ’s co2 emissions . in our system , a country exceeding the worldwide average for per capita emissions would pay a specified amount on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold .
by buying government bonds for cash , a central bank can the price of cash push satisfy demand . when there is no excess demand for cash , there will be no excess supply of the bonds and stocks that underpin and finance the economy ’s productive capital . the checklist of what to do in a financial crisis is the first item . , therefore , via standard open-market operations by a central bank expan@@ sionary monetary policy . i argued that all but a tiny and unbalanced fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant in a downturn , and i was three months ago . that all but a tiny and unbalanced fringe of economists approve of central-bank guarantees of system stability , in order to prevent the risk of a collapse of the payments system from becoming a first-order consideration boosting the demand for cash to unnatural levels , i was still right .
they contend nato and the union of european the eastward expansion . in fact , none other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato enlargement in the 1990s on precisely these grounds . this theory are obvious limits . , there . for starters , it is based on the claim that , at the time of the berlin wall ’s collapse and the soviet union ’s disintegration , the west promised that there would be no nato expansion . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the wall ’s demise , accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead taking “ advantage of russia ’s weakening ” in the 1990s to claim “ monopoly leadership and domination of the world , ” including through nato enlargement .
the international monetary fund has gotten in on the act , too . even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , no doubt still conscious of the panglossian view it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to a sudden tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations appear stretched in some markets . ” in this context , “ some ” is imf code for the united states . the us market ’s share of global equity valuations is the highest it has ever been – a remarkable statistic given the declining us share of global economic activity . should we view all these warnings , how ?
i also developed what i called the adjusted gsdeer , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors such as the real interest-rate differential between the us and the eurozone . which interest rate is best for making comparisons is a matter of debate , as are the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to use the ten-year government bond differential , adjusted for inflation expectations . accordingly , the adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as of june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1.0590 . given that the dollar was trading at around $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this than it should be , the dollar is actually around 6 % . suggests . . this finding may not mean anything at all , and 6 % is not a particularly significant difference of course . .
the party came to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated loan repayments – hoping to get their money back . gave up and decided to pull the plug is to support its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations is been . was the kazakh government . . the banks defaulted on their loans , and creditors took large “ haircuts ” ( reductions in principal value ) . but – and here ’s the point – with its debts written off , the banking system is now recapitalized and able to support economic growth . despite a default of messy , this fresh start has generated a turnaround of remarkable .
even after this time we reach the 760,000 children % of only 8 in the drc . for basic needs such as water , food , and shelter , and less than $ 10 per child goes toward education , only $ 230 per year per person is available . this year must be education ’s moment – a window of opportunity opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the un sustainable development goals , including reducing maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our minds to issues of gender equality . but , most important , this is education ’s moment because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holds a book up to an insurgent ’s gun in pakistan , when teenage mothers exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda make education for their children their top priority , and when lights seen from space might include clusters of children huddled by candlelight trying to read and study , we know that education ’s moment has come .
used it to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , and israel 's egypt establishing diplomatic relations is president jimmy carter . and it to overcome the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference , secretary of james baker state used . it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution if this today can not provide the us . it is time for the us to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , change north korea ’s behavior , or stop the syrian civil war on its own . the world grew war us-led international coalitions accustomed in the middle east over the last two decades .
the most powerful states in the world not only in the balkans but all over the world , give a light of green to terrorists . by appeasing the terrorists in this way . is smaller than afghanistan territory , kosovo . what does it have of defeating terrorism elsewhere , if the world fails to eliminate terrorists from politics in kosovo ? so it should eliminate terror in a place how itself is ruling is the un . before the anti-terror campaign seeks other terrorist bases to destroy . if not , the un , nato and the european union will discredit themselves as well as the humanitarian values they use to justify their `` humanitarian '' interventions .
can it be any less so with humans if is so complex for the relationship between genes fruit fly and behavior ? as genetics itself is as old . could account for a trait complete biological . the start of the last century every gene one unique characteristic governed believed . whether describing genes for the color of flowers in pea plants or the shape of the fruit fly 's wings . soon , a few of the early geneticists , founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that " licentiousness , " " shiftlessness , " and " criminality " could all be attributed to individual genes as well . the actual complexity became clear between genes and characteristics ... scientific knowledge of the fruit fly -- much of it and as time passed . .
and after all , you ca n’t have a final , utopian society without having a final , scientific theory of human behavior , together with some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over the whole thing . the problem is that , no matter how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs were formulated , they are still false . is among scarce resources control among other things , capitalism . it a soft , restrained , private form of warfare is , like poker boxing and . military strategists have there 's the war of no final science , centuries . known .
paris – earlier this week , following days of tense discussions , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that includes a package of immediate reforms and a four-month extension of the financial assistance program . on a new financial-assistance program that should be introduced by the end of june , preclude the need for further tough negotiations . does n't . , but despite europe 's collective sigh of relief . reach an agreement failure would cost them influencing the behavior protagonists , hence the outcome , . in this case , the issue is the cost of greece 's exit ( “ grexit " ) from the eurozone – a prospect that was widely discussed in the media throughout the recent negotiation , with considerable speculation about the stance of the various players , especially the greek and german governments . leaving the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is very little support for it in the country from greece 's perspective .
are never pretty , and as any election in iraq is likely as afghanistan 's recent vote demonstrated . is elections in countries that have strangers to democracy been . but are not always the picture of whole is electoral . consider kazakhstan , where the lower house of their parliament 's cast bal@@ lots . is five million people . . western media judged the election a failure . cnn reported it " neither equitable nor free . "
it as well as access to education and basic health care basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power providing public goods : is largely . . a very strong entrepreneurial class , a middle class reasonably large and well-educated , and a number of world-class corporations has that the effort to provide public goods , and unlike many poor countries . a growth source is the demand for such goods . but russian businesses , and connected areas trade increases is also confirmed by a reliable road . as india did away with the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments understood the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) contested the 2004 election on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in the slogan , “ india shining . ”
was unfit for the new challenges , owing both to firm size and their specialization in traditional sectors , as well as low levels of education and r & d. , his economic structure , and was poorer , his infrastructure , both material and intellectual . . yet the berlusconi government did next to nothing to address these deficiencies , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could have undertaken coherent supply-side reforms , even at the risk of some initial unpopularity . on pensions ti@@ mid intervention were belatedly enacted is a couple of reforms . while privatization came to a halt , it to give proper incentives to restructuring , or to deregulate product markets . . , but nothing .
something remarkable is happening in black africa despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the epidemic of aids anguish . if not quite representing an african " silicon valley , " these shoots of high-tech industry nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive . what of a single high-rise office building in accra , ghana 's capital , several floors is happening . , consider . working around the clock , in three shifts - there some 1,500 africans process american health-insurance claims . ship them to the us from paper claim forms supplied by us health insurers via satellite in electronic form , put it into new digital forms , speak english type at least 50 words . is the africans .
yet the westphalian system was destroyed by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century – both of which were in fact european wars for world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , the europeans – even the victorious european allies – had effectively lost their sovereignty . with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union , the cold war bipolar was replaced . is the westphalian system . was conceived as an attempt to regain european sovereignty peacefully , by european states pooling national interests is the eu . to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic head butting was always this effort goal .
the ecb will inform its bank stress tests results in october and november . the results will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk because many banks keep the government debt eurozone large volume . as a regulator , its credibility will be badly if the ecb grossly risks understates . there some periphery countries require help from the north will might have difficulty plugging the holes . is a chance . , if it is more forthright about the risks . one will be the ecb hopes . .
researchers should use while taking care to stringent privacy and accountability protocols , test groups fully representative . these initiatives cost money of course . $ 3.2 billion annually on development and health research global now spend venture capital companies . they should expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled technologies for mental-health-care delivery . they could also to further innovation in this area spur in order , fund competitions between socially conscious technology entrepreneurs . .
however , in public policy , the model of teaching-hospital could be effective . consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth lab , which i founded in 2006 after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . we and regions for three dozen countries have worked . since then . the lab looks like a teaching and research hospital in some respects . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” or governments in our case .
and the us had as much regard for british industrialists ’ trade secrets as china has today for american intellectual property rights . to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british craftsmen did their best . were desperate for technology . is the fledgling textile mills of new england . they protected only us citizens , but the us did have patent laws . as one historian of us business has put it , the americans “ were pirates , too . ” start it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrict the policy space countries have to design their own economic and social models from the recognition must be any sensible international trade regime .
will be difficult , making these changes . but if that will be the beginnings of a new international system , there will be political power of global a new conclave . the second great change – ie , the end of global ideological division – also raises difficult and , perhaps , more complex issues . that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for political organization with some form of free market with varying degrees of social responsibility based on private entrepreneurship as the basis for economic activity , i regarding the notion . , there exists today . these are essentially marginal debates , but yes , one can debate about the third way , or the two and a half way , or the three and a half way .
it would close to those yielded by equity investments , but with some of the risk offset by its long-term nature , offer returns . . pension funds , and maybe international financial institutions , sovereign wealth funds , including further would be risk . would provide projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles , public contributions multilateral lenders backstopped likely . finally , for better pre-defined return structures than traditional private or public equity can offer , the regulated nature would allow of cash flows . bespoke returns for different participants in a new private-sector investment platform would require the bhe of the development .
capital inflows – which will undoubtedly increase in the coming years – are driven largely by investors ’ interest in diversification and high yield , rather than the country ’s image as a refuge from troubled financial markets elsewhere , especially given that china ’s financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and beset by considerable risks . some foreign banks have signed in their reserve portfolios , hold the currency of small amounts . of course . but these actions may be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic power , can not be discounted . depending on the ren@@ min@@ bi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future , china opens up its capital account and the financial markets develops .
po@@ la for the cartels , not for the livelihood of own is the guerrero peasants . and the us drug enforcement administration will not look kindly on any backtracking from previous mexican presidents ’ commitments to continue waging a costly , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico . are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , of course , ranging from intelligence sharing and counter-terrorism to regional crises such as venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba , there . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while retreating to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-interventionist stance on regional diplomacy . but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a real rupture here may be avoided .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . similar protests the introduction of the law would allow president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure , of congo , the year of same . that buttress constitutional democracy , leadership in this area . in line with its agenda show should be the au . in the past , he mastered military coups . is the au . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must stand against “ constitutional coups ” carried out by presidents , as it establishes itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
see immigrant families in each country the large number in the us , the uk , and france higher fertility rates north american families of native european are typically higher than . is fertility rates among immigrants . but increasing the number of immigrant workers will not necessarily raise fertility rates . their homeland leave their most kids . ; few settle there with their families , but germany has a large population of guest workers . . an aging population economic performance of poor contributes to europe . .
were no consequences whatsoever for cheney there . the news barely in the us media , he made a ripple . . impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes go un-noticed . the few that are noticed typically end with a slap on the wrist , with the company – meaning its shareholders – picking up a modest fine . at these companies the top for the real culprits rarely worry need .
greene found that people asked to make a moral judgment about “ personal ” violations , like pushing the stranger off the footbridge , showed increased activity in areas of the brain associated with the emotions . this was not the case with people asked to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations like throwing a switch . moreover , took longer to reach this judgment than those who said that doing so would be wrong , who did consider that it would be right to push the stranger off the footbridge , subjects the minority . why would our emotions , and our judgments this way vary ? for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestors – have lived in small groups , in which violence could be inflicted only in an up-close and personal way , by hitting , pushing , strangling , or using a stick or stone as a club .
in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu and then other partners . there is no prospect of a general election to resolve it anytime soon , and high political uncertainty . investors have take a attitude of wait-and-see every reason . in 1949 , britain found itself in the same position , with a trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . as it had been 18 years before , 30 % was de@@ valued again . in september of that year
forget his actions and tone once in power turkey continued to allow the u.s.-led " operation provide comfort " against iraq to use turkish bases . it remained a vital member of nato . by ranking turkish officials than ever before -- a move orchestrated by ciller but accepted by refah , israel relations improved with more visits . power actually to extremes , compromise led re@@ fa@@ h . .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , a play whose title character is the proprietor of several brothels . justifies the prostitution business her profitable exploitation from a feminist standpoint is the play . it contains no coarse language , and is n't sal@@ ting the play . , but it was nonetheless eight years before it could be staged . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theater “ club , ” ostensibly limited to members . in 1905 , its performance in new york . was the police raided .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the verge of an unemployment crisis portending profound economic , political , and social ramifications . but the crisis can be averted , and be as simple as turning on the lights may be one of the solutions . . some 13 million people only about three million of them find jobs , but work in africa look . every year . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s schools and universities are not producing enough graduates with the technical skills to succeed in the workplace of tomorrow . although the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs within a decade through its jobs for youth in africa initiative , it is not immediately clear where those opportunities will come from .
they will insist on being treated accordingly , and they did not calculate the palestinian people only like any other nation have and national pride dignity . . . the reality of illegal of israeli settlements does not mean the two-state solution ; let us be clear . refusing to mention the two-state solution , the statements of trump ’s team go in a different direction , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . but the international leader arab , or responsible , no palestinian would ever as has been made clear in messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration , accept this design . . now , plans are afoot to “ promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through a us-polish conference in warsaw , where palestinians are not going to participate .
it if avoiding talk about israel is sanders for a departure , it is not . in any case . he has generally not been outspoken on issues relating to the country despite having commented on the matter where necessary . he has certainly as many other american jewish politicians have , never watched israel as a political cause . . appear to in his own jewish identity , which is more connected to the memory of the holocaust than anything else , i figure much . nor israel . 's than many other american jews , no different . in this respect
king salman embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and expressed support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nothing was said about human rights , much less women ’s rights , and the word “ democracy ” never passed trump ’s lips . instead , to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in the us economy , provide $ 110 billion in advanced weapons . completed a deal . , trump . the agreement appears to have become the foundation of a wonderful new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the american people the business of chief is business .
holding gold offset the fall in the value of the dollar did nothing . since gold was $ 400 an ounce in both years . could instead have offset the exchange rate loss by buying yen futures is a japanese investor who held real estate of dollar equities . the euro-based investor who but could have offset the dollar decline by buying euro futures would not have gained by holding gold . is true . is the same . there are to safeguard exchange-rate risk inflation risk better ways in short . can offset exchange-rate risks , and provide safe inflation tips , or their other governments equivalent from , .
munich – because china has pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the dollar , every weakening of the dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis has also meant a weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . but for a global war currency eruption , is china ? the central banks of south korea , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many other countries are now buying dollars in order to protect their own currencies against revaluation and thus to defend their exports . europe also became nervous after the euro exchange rate rose to more than $ 1.40 , far beyond the purchasing power parity ( ppp ) rate of $ 1.17 . making provisions for a trade war , taking drastic steps against china is now . . is the united states .
but while these sources can provide valuable insights , they standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which an informed public conversation should be based meet do n't . . to more get involved , researchers , the media , and civil-society organizations need for these reasons . it tracking income and wealth indicators and methods an internationally recognized set is critical . . should be publishing the income and wealth levels of the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the effective taxes paid by these groups , government statistical agencies . a revision , due in the next three years , of the system of united nations of national accounts come will be particularly important to that end .
eliminating federal subsidies for health-insurance coverage under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the government a little over $ 100 billion a year , about 3 % of federal spending . but those subsidies their dedicated taxes own are largely paid . . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are said done is replacing ob@@ am@@ ac@@ are , i learning . . is fearsomely complex is as could have told them hillary clinton , health-care reform . it is increasingly clear that the name will change ( “ trumpcare , ” anyone ? ) , and it can be expected that the republican plan will cover fewer people ; but much of the substance will remain the same .
during cardoso 's tenure , he privatized telecoms , the national mining company and the electric sector part . rose unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all , inflation fell . suffered blackouts and electricity rationing last year , and heightened social inequalities . especially after the right 's favored candidate , roseana sarney , crashed and burned when federal police and prosecutors discovered a load of cash in her husband 's office , he showed strength . from the start of the campaign lula . were eventually not soon enough to save her candidacy , but all charges absolved is mr. and mrs. sarney .
in case you think that people receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation has shown that they do n’t . give directly ’s cash transfers increase recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets . you could buy 180 million bed nets , enough to from malaria , protect 271 million people . for $ 450 million . ( for all these interventions , the numbers are likely to be somewhat smaller , because the charity impact calculator is not designed for such large sums , and so does not take into account that costs will rise once the needs of those who are easiest to reach have been met . ) when a person chooses to buy “ salvator mundi ” rather than restore sight to nine million people , what does that say about their values ?
the mail managers will also handle incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests as specified by the recipient , and will collect credit card information from senders ( or more likely charge their paypal accounts or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . will be handled in the background most of this ; the recipient is unlikely to see the complexities . you can set say who can reach you for free , $ 1 along with a list of people . at your price to start . there will you know who have multiple e-mail addresses , old friends not on your current white list of free senders , and so on , you 'll be glitches at the beginning lots . . but a higher proportion of it will be answered as less mail gets sent . , and such challenges will time diminish .
in trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self is another story ) . it was a mistake to see bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some did , as the trump white house ’s rasputin . that to overrule his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement led card . , the nationalist inclination was reinforced by bannon . and bannon intruded on foreign policy by getting himself put on the national security council for a while , until two of the generals in trump ’s administration – national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now the chief of staff ) – got him removed . ( bannon was believed to be behind the recent push to force out mcmaster , mainly by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ” )
they collaborate mi@@ str@@ ust too much . offer hope to the 25 million unemployed is weak , and the economic growth to repay debt needed . , demand in most of the european union . a grand solution the main obstacle was paro@@ chi@@ al suspicion . no country ’s taxpayers have wanted to feel that they are paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . so creditor countries , led by germany , have sought to do the minimum necessary to keep the euro alive , while debtors have grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
the euro ushered the credit of cheap in southern europe that burst when , fed an inflationary economic bubble . the financial crisis hit . was the thoroughly overpriced rump of economies that had become excessively dependent on foreign financing , what was left , and worsened abruptly credit terms . because its customers in southern europe are in trouble , the french economy , in turn , is suffering . according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by around 20 % relative to the eurozone average , and by about 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore external-debt sustainability . the ecb and the international community – particularly the international monetary fund – have tried to deal with the crisis by replacing the dearth of private capital with public credit .
happens even if you read philosophy , say , husserl is the same . follows questions in order for you a series to see how he reaches his conclusions , and opens at the fist page . is the author . to be read cover to cover are never meant . , encyclopedias . if i want to know whether it was possible that napoleon met kant , i pick up volumes k and n and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 and died in 1804 . it that the two met is possible . .
it would be our team no longer , but it better team produce . this defeating economic logic emotion is just another case . from one perspective . economic cost-benefit analysis that does not connect to our compass of emotional does not move the needle ; we make most decisions , including political ones , but our feelings are provided by the evolution . . at the core of the issue is the sense of “ us . ” does it to the eu , nigeria , iraq , turkey , switzerland , or any other political entity be a member , mean , what ?
are frequently be bitter antagonists presumed is and democracy islam . however , that islam and democracy can and do co-exist , muslim-majority states the world 's careful study shows . it is the arab world , not islam , which seems at loggerheads with democracy is the gap of real . this conclusion is based on comparing muslim countries ' " electoral competitiveness . " if a government sprang from reasonably fair elections and the elected government is able to fill the most important political offices , the country is deemed " electorally competitive . "
( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . ) on the other hand , swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger correctly observed that the venter achievement “ is a technical advance , not a conceptual one . ” other scientists noted that the organism is really only “ semi-synthetic , ” because the synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of the dry weight of the cell ) was introduced into a normal , or non-synthetic , bacterium . understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects the potential application and diffusion of the technology . thirty-five years ago , the us national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna , or “ genetic engineering , ” techniques .
paris – with weak demand in advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of income convergence has come to an end . nothing could the truth be further . as i have argued before , convergence of emerging countries ’ real average incomes , in the aggregate , with advanced countries ’ incomes is likely to continue into the 2020 ’s . that process started in the late 1980 ’s , and continued unabated , except in the years around the asian financial crisis in 1997-1998 . increased from a little more than two percentage points in the two decades before more than four percentage points , the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 : the aggregate average differential in per capita income growth , and the pace of convergence accelerated further during .
have suited the two main political parties in this belief labour has sought to avoid a constitutional debate , because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . it while continuing to give labour , which controls 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionate say over what happens in england is unfair to power more to a scottish parliament give . . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its belief in the union of the country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any discussion of how that union can be modernized . we have to change we govern ourselves , the way . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to pieces .
this means on-the-record correction of request reaching to public figures . , lodging complaints with standards bodies , and providing training to media organizations . it also to prevent international borders , including the circulation of wider of misinformation means working with tech companies . . should not focus but on identifying sources of reliable information and pointing their readers and followers to them , on tackling false information . at the same time we should work to help teach people to identify false or misleading claims with schools and other platforms of educational and the impact apparent is already is the approach taken and as small and under-resourced , by our organizations . as they are .
london – one of the most dispiriting features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons – and by those who would build more of them , or be only too willing to use them – has been consigned to the margin of politics . did his prague speech for capture global attention in 2009 , which made a compelling case for a nuclear weapon-free world , we have barack obama 's president . he at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion , the summit aimed did deliver on a major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and . but political traction public resonance and struggle is still nuclear issues . it would bet the us senate on ratification of the comprehensive test ban treaty is gambler . , i take . .
it requires adequate , ongoing investment in public goods seems self-evident . . but the state of infrastructure in the us do n't the view share , many decision-makers suggests . . a 2013 report by the society of american of civil engineers gave the us the d of a pathetic overall grade + for its infrastructure . the report cited numerous state-specific shortcomings , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the “ $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems ” in california . the report concludes that a $ 3.6 trillion investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed by 2020 to boost the quality of us infrastructure by addressing the “ significant backlog of overdue maintenance [ and the ] pressing need for modernization . ”
prohibition reduces drugs associated with the harm presumes . is the second myth . global markets in cannabis , opium and coca products are basically similar to other global commodities markets , yet global drug control policies operate on the assumption that the drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to perceive prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . the regulation of the abdication is the fact prohibition . is effectively unregulated , except by criminal organizations , is not suppressed whatever .
small yield produce will caught when they are too small . -- this is for the best of reasons . moreover , had a chance to undermining the stock of fish altogether , reproduce . will not be the fish . for example , the avowed intention of the eu common fisheries policy is " to protect fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken from the sea , by allowing young fish to reproduce , and by ensuring that measures are respected . " as it stands , however , we have " fished down " our stocks , until few large , old individuals remain . to the north cod sea , see this . .
official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and it is usually 86 % – support him on everything from the annexation of crimea to his latest term as president . but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration for the real thing . know impossible remains what people genuinely feel is the truth . . to simmer will continue with russian economy owing largely to international sanctions and kremlin counter-sanctions , stagnating . .
it was probably in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package , that these practices were most widespread , but . yet this vulnerability accommodated at least , largely created , western banks was . . the funding from the parent banks that in the earlier phase of the crisis helped provide liquidity to the east european banking systems now appears more as a liability and possible source of contagion . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home rule , ” were supposed to discourage these excesses . effectively deprived countries in central and eastern europe of monetary policy tools , with little control over extremely rapid credit growth , i leaving them . has is the penetration of foreign banks .
add that offers ideal conditions for mayhem in the continent and and religious diversity in the mismanagement emulating countries elsewhere , african governments have responded to violent extremism primarily by putting “ hard ” security first . but this strategy has not reduced extremist groups ’ potency or limited their reach . in fact , there that an exclusively military response can be a waste of resources , or even do more harm than good , it is evidence . . root causes deeper examination , particularly underlying development challenges is is missing what .
moreover , wherever health-care costs are paid by everyone – including the us , with its public health-care programs for the poor and the elderly – everyone pays the cost of efforts to treat the diseases caused by cigarettes . because it would for organized crime , create a new revenue source . no doubt , whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether . it seems odd , however , to hold that the state may , in principle , prohibit the sale of a product , but may not permit it to be sold only in packs that carry graphic images of the damage it causes to human health . the tobacco industry will now take its battle against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization . could be copied in much larger markets , like india and china fears that law . is the industry .
climate changes linked , the united nations framework to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate exactly how the disasters they feared has rejected . . according to a recent rand study , the united states ’ funding for disaster loss-reduction research in 2003 amounted to about $ 127 million – only 7 % of the amount invested in climate-change research for that year . weather disasters effects is not the best way to reduce the climate policies change . in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks , which has invested . , the dominican republic suffered more than ten deaths during the 2004 hurricane season . in neighboring haiti , which was n’t prepared , 2,000 lives were lost .
the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emission target into formal g-20 support for “ strong and effective action to address climate change . ” the g-20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge to the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . ( all of this dismayed australia ’s conservative host government , which had fought to prevent the issue from even being raised ; the australian public , however , was delighted , and promptly knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments . ) other formal outcomes of the g-20 meeting were agreements – backed by more policy detail than most commentators had expected – to stimulate global growth . leaders and how target corruption to bring more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; , focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts . in particular .
such a magisterial setting as versailles hosting them is sure if you want to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries . but reveling in the country ’s monarchical history can be dangerous . have been a twenty-first-century bonaparte hoping may macron voted . who paid with his life for the faults of his predecessors , louis x@@ vi 's king more . be thinking but now . can he humiliated regain the confidence of french voters who have felt his mistakes learn ?
got on the part of the us federal reserve in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism what the economy , and this is . american groups consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to supportive steps take as they intervened . they global policy coordination in history culminating in one of the most successful periods , involving both advanced and emerging economies did . , and . when the us economy the corner turned , global summit 's economic held in july 2009 . the change was so notable that many policymakers fell into the trap of projecting a quick rebound , especially given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only to be humbled by what has proven to be a protracted and complex process of recovery .
becomes self-fulfilling will lose value . , and feeds on fear . the 2008 recession was a bubble of real-estate collapse triggered . by 34 % since its peak in 2006 has fallen . , and is still declining is the us rental wealth . nearly 50 % from its 2007 peak fell . and remains down by nearly a third is the market of stock . in consumption demand , which has led to an increase in unemployment , she caused a large and persistent drop . is the wealth of this enormous loss .
the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , did n’t purchase the las vegas review-journal in 2015 or capture israeli media for the money . liability will only be corporate political and as the landscape of media increasingly lends itself to capture . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling for solutions . media a well-functioning democracy are essential . free and healthy . we must defend the former at all costs if we are to protect the latter .
deal with a non-existent or weak opposition had until now , merkel . this will troop increases nato in afghanistan the possibility change very quickly . . she 'll that she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making skills , ask a trait . from now on . has yellow black and the victory defined the alternative : red , dark red , and green . the political camps of old – left and right – are back for the time being .
instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encourage reliance on public transportation , and make our streets pleasant and safe for walking ( especially for women and the disabled ) . to change how we produce , transport , and consume energy is the fourth challenge . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investment in renewable sources ( which will , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . we can also encourage households to consume less energy , and that they waste , reduce the energy amount . companies . we must reform and we manage water resources and water infrastructure , so that this precious resource can be re-used several times fifth .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . he after his right-wing likud party gained a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union , winning a third term consecutive in office . surprised almost everyone to ensure the electoral victory . . but the celebration is likely to be short . the way netanyahu finagled this outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine and pledging to continue building settlements on occupied land – will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while convincing the palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine 's first woman fighter pilot , the early test should be min@@ sk agreement the kremlin 's commitment the extent . protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges ludicrous more than those for which i was imprisoned has been on a hunger strike in russia for two months . , savchenko . i hope finally bringing peace to ukraine , the new agreement will last of course . but that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as the automatic eviction of russia from the swift financial transfer system should it renege on any aspect of the agreement , such is unlikely . simply trusting the kremlin 's “ goodwill " would be reckless .
waiting for our luggage at security checks , the air why waste waste time ? before anyone starts slashing travel budgets , let ’s try to understand why we need to move people rather than information . we are starting to shed some light on this mystery , thanks to a research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and an international development center at harvard university anonymized donation . we 've been establish some interesting stylized facts able in ongoing work with dany bahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke . another has only about 70 % more business travel , but have more business travel in both directions for countries of more popu@@ .
too many italians shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and failings , figuring that he would soon go away , having done little harm . but he did plenty of harm , he did n't go . to the same mistake make , afford is not supported by the us . eternal vigilance is the price of liberty , americans are saying fond . there can be no discount in the trump .
all wrong is , although the government growth-enhancing reform recognizes the need . . specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval of a set of “ realistic ” procedures to reduce the red tape perceived to be hampering investment in the extractive industries – the very industries on which the economy should become less dependent . the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental-impact assessments . has a serious problem , the government of peruvian now . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” – an image that some members of the government have been attempting to cultivate – the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects .
fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests are putting at risk what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy . brazilians know exactly what stake is is . is the problem for the government of president dilma rousseff , who was herself imprisoned and tortured under the military regime , . they point to the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity , emerging powers like brazil and india weigh , when pun@@ ters . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society – the relative newness of hard-won freedoms and the intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or a colonial administration , means to individual liberty . ( still less do they notice the role that women ’s empowerment and feminism have played in development . )
how can help with this nato ? this may be a lot directly , it can do nothing . only a military alliance is no longer . , nato . instead , it sets democratic standards for new members and aspirants is a military-political alliance . is now . . can neglect these standards is no romanian government .
a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mafia – that has purchased the military ’s loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . the mafia ’s opponents are repressed , often brutally . in terms of the number of political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump was also quick to recognize the leader of the opposition , juan guaidó , as interim head of state , after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy .
but , so far , costs of lower funding efforts have had a limited impact . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial enterprises remains close to 7 % , while economic growth has edged down from 7.4 % year on year in the last three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the situation may not be dire yet , but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . dilemma faces , the pboc now . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , cutting banks ’ reserve requirement ratio – the momentum for restructuring could be lost ; and there is no guarantee that the additional liquidity would flow into the real sector .
drafted with reference to un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people , based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama , while such an approach would certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands . it would also indirectly address the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ” bilateral diplomacy address international calls would also be a vote . instead of closing doors , such a redefinition of the statehood bid at the un would provide the palestinian leadership with a much-needed symbolic success , including a framework from which to restart negotiations – a longstanding palestinian demand .
given that ongoing changes in the means of production have already kick-started this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have suggested that robots be taxed to pay for human services . clearly , some compromise kind will need to be made , but is now whether that is the best solution . raise profound ethical issues for liberal politicians , particularly with respect to privacy and safety will ai robotics . fortunately , this issue than on taxation is a consensus broader political . is there . the parliament of european has working in the field of robotics for engineers and others proposed voluntary code . .
" everything . . . everything changes . " a famous song argentine goes the refrain . but becomes worse , or stays the same . is the everything in argentina . heraclitus 's warning against bathing in the same sea twice is lost on our economic ministers , who insist on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . they follow the same path , the international fund , and over what will happen if argentina pays back its foreign debt , first raising concerns . , whenever they go bathing .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes more fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are crucial for addressing the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely have our existing institutions – including , above all , the united nations – been frailer . the un is not broken , but it is in trouble , particularly as more countries treat it as a polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere . we ’ve seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging crisis in humanitarian-aid funding . while the un still has many strengths , it also structural weaknesses has clear .
was apparently last year at a meeting of activists at the european social forum in florence in november taken . is the decision to start as a day of mass protest february 15 . these organi@@ zers turned more than 5 million protestors worldwide in ninety days . to this phenomenon three keys are there : allowed for organizational plans a dissemination of rapid at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers is the internet . based on a loose global plan , the local organizations the initiative seizing . is mass action .
the prison building boom memorialize this decision how better ? the new facility for which the money is to be earmarked will house 106 prisoners ( the precise number is uncertain ) who have been neither tried nor charged . eight of the prisoners are now a strike of hunger entering the second month . according to the spokesman for the us southern command , which oversees gitmo , the hunger strikers are disillusioned , because they believed obama ’s pledge to close gitmo . indeed , they are cleared to leave , and it is only obama ’s failure to keep his promise – and the us congress ’s failure to legislate their transfer – that is keeping them there .
flows of technology and innovation : increased technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would support the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; decreased flows would undermine global productivity . what security reviews are increasingly subject . , technologies may also be decided by the world . could depending on what technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth is the extent . , be at stake . according to our simulation it is important to note that these choices are not just china ’s ; the world also has decisions to make . for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that strengthen dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits from increased chinese ( and other ) trade are shared broadly .
whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland – which is not in the eurozone – has essentially recovered . technical considerations difficult , expensive , and dangerous make following the eurozone . to as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in 2007 , i 'm sure . . but that is the ledger just one side . using iceland as our measuring stick , the cost to greece of not exiting the eurozone is equivalent to 75 % of a year ’s gdp – and counting . it would amounted to even a quarter of that if greece had abandoned the euro in 2010 , i believe . is hard for me . .
that state security would be threatened if he lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order , mali@@ ki said he was losing the vote . he as commander-in-chief not as a candidate , but in his capacity , he did lost when . the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , has been unable to secure a second term seven months after the elections attests to the widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s political class . there is only one way to explain the us administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage from iraq during his first term . in this , obama is following the example of president george w. bush , who let the us electoral agenda , rather than american – not to mention iraqi – national interests , dictate iraq policy .
economics postmodernist territory enters in the importance of the signal its emphasis the signal – in this case the promise to balance the books – creates the reality . start behaving as though they do n't the fact ignoring , the books were balanced . , people . one ways that make it come true acts , when one believes the narrative . i his pronouncements signaling effects do not believe that os@@ borne in fact .
in response to dwindling donor funds , the ghanaian government brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which currently is working to fill urgent funding gaps , but will eventually help lead a sustainable , domestic effort to eliminate malaria from the country . this a moment of challenging is . but it ’s also a moment of opportunity . no@@ v@@ arti@@ s recently invest the next five years & d more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r , to help contain emerging resistant strains of the disease , i announced . for its part . on completing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates , our focus is now .
if sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they will have no stake in the success of maliki ’s government and could again begin to pursue their political interests by other means , provoking another surge of sectarian violence . worse still , factional conflict would a iraqi identity post-saddam undermine further development . otherwise , the country ’s various interest groups could , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , turn to outsiders to negotiate solutions to their problems . there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon ’s example in this respect . through an army that a large shia-dominated militant organization operates in the shadow . a politically dysfunctional government even in the best of times , lebanon muddles .
the us had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 – a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be effectively addressed through country-specific “ remedies . ” that ’s not to say that america ’s trading partners should be let off the hook for unfair practices . but it does mean that there is limited hope for resolving seemingly chronic trade deficits – and the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to these imbalances – if the us does n’t start saving again . alas , this plot is about to thicken . trumponomics seems likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead .
as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated the armies of three arab countries , conquering the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in a mere six days is seen . across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th . trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraqi earthquake is busy . is now arab intellectuals , and indeed the arab public wider , . are now busy defending the same old totalitarian mindset , the ba'athist former regime in iraq and others supporters . in order to ensure that is saddam 's regime any criticism , their tactic has been reported . for fahd al-fanek , a former ba'ath party member , example is now the jordanian newspaper al-ra ' i. columnist for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba'ath party member , is now a columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-ra ' i.
meanwhile , the lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) could be a result of its increased investment-income deficit . to decline to its lowest rate in the past 11 years , even though the exports of recovery in the economies of advanced in principle , a country can a current-account deficit or surplus continuously run for decades . but china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest exporter of capital signifies a gross misallocation of resources .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainability organization global footprint network , humanity will have used up the earth ’s resource budget for the entire year . this “ earth overshoot day ” has moved forward by an astonishing two months in the past 20 years and in 2019 it will arrive earlier than ever . although humanity ’s increasing environmental impact manifests itself in many ways , climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting effects . carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels our ecological footprint an estimated 60 % account . following most powerful leader of iran the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
is the legitimacy of the source of only that the one-party state has left is the economic boom . marxism-leninism still believe , let alone maoism is party members of few people . demonstrated in all china regions in 1989 was now . , and the general dis@@ content with official corruption . stay in power after tiananmen not just through brute force managed is the government of communist . a semblance of political legitimacy , especially among the educated middle class , wealth for the promise was purchased . .
but this is not sustainable given the pressing housing and the world infrastructure shortfalls . it will continue in emerging countries , but in many advanced economies , i 'm leveling . may be urbanization . . the world ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new housing units by 2025 . that number is rise to 440 million by 2025 projected ; urban households lived in substandard housing , or struggled financially due to housing costs in 2014 , an estimated 330 million . even in an advanced economy such as the united states , over 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates .
berkeley – one does not need to be particularly good at hearing to decipher the dog whistles being used during this year ’s election campaign in the united states . to blow everyone up , muslims want . , and that mexicans and chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their rightful jobs . , and you 'll understand . scarier than the usual fare election-year is all of this fear mongering . it is frightening to people in foreign countries , who can conclude only that voters in the world ’s only superpower have become dangerously unbalanced . and it is frightening to americans , who until recently believed – or perhaps hoped – that they were living in a republic based on the traditions established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt .
the problem by giving more to those who have the most political power is always solved . put in these terms . professor nicola rossi , economic advisor to prime minister massimo d'alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the wish that we give " less to the fathers and more to the sons . " but if unions are powerful or seniors are in the majority ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all labor unions ) , the exact opposite happens . italy 's recent budget , the fiscal reform of the issue confronted the pensions which , demonstrates this fully . here is the budget of the delusion of grand and the finance ministry in italy .
oslo – education is a human right . and , like other human rights , it can not be taken for granted . 65 million million children are out of school across the world . more than 120 million children do not complete primary education . there are only a chance to get a decent job , to escape poverty , to support their families , and to develop their communities , but and youth children was rejected . behind these figures .
small farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s biggest agricultural investors . and growth in other sectors reducing poverty is more than twice effective . , agriculture-driven gdp growth . achieving their potential encounter significant obstacles . but african farmers . they apply a hectare fertilizer less than 10 kilograms , compared to 140 kilograms in india on average . furthermore , less than 5 % of agricultural land are rarely used by crop varieties , and is irrigated . .
whether decision-makers are prepared to use them , the question is . obviously , most eu countries ’ governments are not . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? that they justify the suffering that could have been avoided , so high . , are the risks ? have now spent more than 12 years on the market in the us is gm foods .
of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-quarters including bank loans , corporate bonds , and government securities , some debt tool kind are . the market of derivatives certainly than this superficial calculation implies , but the basic point stands , risk more widely . helps spread . . certainly , there are how have such an insatiable appetite for debt in lenders is some economic reason good . . difficulties and imperfect information in monitoring firms idealized risk-sharing instruments pose significant obstacles . . but policy-induced distortions also a enormous role play .
italian exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) per year , while imports are approximately € 29 billion . moreover , a partnership with china could takes its banks to given constrained that italy italy , attract additional capital inf@@ lows . . whereas italy has received about € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms invested € 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and have signed contracts for bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy on china . for starters , italy ’s interests may not be aligned with those of china .
after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , the public ’s patience has worn thin . have , in recent decades , leveling the playing field promise risen to power . to be sure . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – did bring some short-term benefits , particularly to the poor . but , such measures did more harm than good populism plagued were often . . these leaders diversify their economies or improve economic fundamentals failed fund social programmes on commodity revenues .
his eloquent resignation letter made clear that he objected not just to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and opponents ; his willingness to abandon friends , such as the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , such as nato . mattis ’s friends explained in television interviews that what most troubled the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not just that he could no longer affect policy , but also that his remaining in the cabinet was taken as an affirmation of trump , a position he could no longer bear . even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued a statement on thursday afternoon that he was “ distressed ” by the departure of mattis ( a significant sign , many believe , of mcconnell ’s private worry about trump ’s effect on the republican party . ) members of congress without any guardrails , they expressed a presidency of trump outright fear . . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long .
has reinforced its security system , and have the surveillance cameras of a ubiquitous system put in place is the government . with the unintended side effect of hurting international business in china , anyone active on behalf of human rights are been rejected . , visas . but china ’s priority is not just to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it if its power the monopoly , encourage growth . is . can stage a spectacular performance china , a world power once again , , and the regime is set on proving the world 's voice .
he will have to become an left-leaning leader internationalist or an internationalist right-leaning one . a option of tenable appears only one of those . would not be a strong internationalist bent compatible for the center-right traditional policies would be accompanied by modernized social policies that provide effective help to those who need it if to be backed by a popular majority is in its various dimensions , globalization . this will be more important at a time of continuous economic disruption .
there could help appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue loss from an outright ban on smoking , electronic cigarettes is an alternative : , but . given that e-cigarettes merely heat a nicotine solution to produce an inhalable vapor , they release none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoke , making them the ideal nicotine-delivery system for smokers seeking – or being forced – to reduce or halt their tobacco intake . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are china in 2003 invented , a product of homegrown . but , despite considerable progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 manufacturers of the devices , up 200 % from 2012 , and accounted for over 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , “ if only 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes , it would mean a market of about 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ”
the reason un climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas – centered on voluntary , quantitative targets – are fundamentally flawed . applied a un conference for emissions-reduction targets is easy agreeing to quantitative . gdp will fall by $ z billion , and we would lose y million jobs . : but those targets as a sacrifice automatically applies to countries . . because there are no actual sanctions or punishment for non-compliance , when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their minds . it may not obtain the results of desired even if a government does try to uphold its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries .
it low prices of apple supplies the core components . , while china provides just 4 % of value added . it would have to search for alternative suppliers , raising its production costs considerably , apple ca n't from scratch in the us , build an iphone . . this would give chinese smartphone businesses an opportunity to market share from major players seize . international supply chains the global trade of 80 % . their production lines geographically , splinter firms with goods is declining trade costs . and value added in multiple countries along the chain .
financial economists view such luck-based compensation as a sign of governance problems . third , a higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . in firms with a high ceo pay slice , the probability of a ceo turnover after bad performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s length of service ) is lower . reflects less willingness on the part of discipline the ceo directors is turnover to performance lower sensitivity . finally , provide their ceo with option grants that turn out to be opportunistically timed are more likely . , a higher ceo pay slice firms .
is only one europe , despite its diversity , there . across the continent provokes consequences . is any occurrence of weighty . if europe is to become one , if the european union is to take in the new postcommunist democracies - which is in the interest of all europe - a number of vital tasks must be as well within the new democracies , the european communities undertaken . . foster by restoring civil society for community in the postcommunist countries must to begin , europe . can not restructured from the above be for a society of living
firm and their policy toward russia united must remain the eu and the us . engage constructively with the west , and the best chance to bringing the current confrontation with an end offers this approach . if cooperation believe it has broken , demonstrating its commitment to abide by the treaties and international norms of behavior to which it has agreed earn back , russia must work is . on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will only the conflict prolong ; when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace . the sooner the west convinces russia ’s leaders that it will not back down , the sooner the conflict will be over .
nine times out of ten , nothing really serious does happen – merely a little distress to individuals or to groups . but we run a risk of the tenth time … ” today , greece ’s european creditors seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on the irrevocability of the euro in order to insist on collecting some crumbs from the country ’s pensioners . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit , the world will never again trust the euro ’s longevity . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo increased market pressures .
it to a plutocracy , in which wealth determines status , or a gerontocracy , in which age leads one to the top , or even an aristocracy , in which what counts are inherited titles and properties , i is sure . . at first sight at least seems preferable . is so meritocracy . but , on closer inspection , things simple are n't . france the meritocracy epitome has been long . for many . most of those in the top reaches of not only the civil service and the judiciary , but also politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the famous grandes écoles .
at america ’s most elite universities , for example , only around 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the population , while 74 % come from the top quarter . see a moral obligation to to their potential , young people may live . , help ensure . in most societies some countries even equality of educational opportunities impose a constitutional mandate . but spent than on the education of the poor on the education of rich students is better in america . as a result , the us is wasting some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities .
the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group , unless they transfer power to a civilian authority . even if sudan ’s military leaders succumb to au pressure , however , political stability is far from guaranteed . for decades , le pouvoir buy through massive subsidies for public relative used oil revenue . . were thus lost when south sudan seceded in 2011 were concentrated in the south . but these reserves . and now political stability is gone .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is a daunting one , especially given constraints on key resources like water and agricultural land . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supply are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . now , a third solution is vertical farming emerging : . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses that use artificial light to grow crops – can provide considerable savings , which could then be passed along to consumers . but questions about such farms ’ fundamental economics , especially for commodity crops , have persisted .
is that is political problem , what it does mean . to confront them on so fundamental an issue are lo@@ ath . , and are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy for pensioners . still , we at the core of today 's economic dilemmas for the intergenerational issues face directly need . our pension systems and our national budgets must be based on a `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risk is spread systematically across generations . what this means is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to take better account of the changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than make fixed promises -- which most likely can not be kept , anyway -- of a certain payout in the future .
be the society of a net gain , because the government then saves on debt service and can keep taxes lower appear is lower financing costs for public debt . but any gains from lower taxes are more than offset by the losses to the private sector , which , facing higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn lowering economic growth – and thus reducing government revenues . been taken in recent years to the system of banking reinforce regulation is many steps . increase the incentive to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector make lending for investment attractive less , but what 's proposed . this can only worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects .
succeeded in a declaration unilateral palestinian of statehood obtaining european support is the plo . americans are , the only obstacle palestinian leaders remaining . mitchell answered that such a commitment would make negotiations pointless how that the us would support such a statehood declaration if talks failed , palestinians asked . instead , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is now the major obstacle about how to achieve a breakthrough , you have their own ideas . , the americans . to effect change in israel , the americans are launching various trial balloons .
until anatomy laws allowed the bodies of executed murderers and the unclaimed dead to be used , thus reassuring middle and upper class individuals that their bodies would not be involved , caused riots . , this business commercial calculus sometimes . these tensions of old have as the commercial potential of human tissue catches the entrepreneurial imagination , i assumed new dimensions . . but few laws to address the uses of cells , tissues , and genes are in place . . that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia and had his spleen removed at the ucla school of medicine in 1976 is the body as property is the most case familiar . . his physician patented certain chemicals in moore 's blood without his knowledge or consent , set up contracts , and sold the rights to a swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from the " mo " cell line .
but it celebrating their newfound friends from all over the world for a football party great , just keep the germans . as never before , but almost nowhere are there nationalist undertones , it adorns the country . , and german tri@@ color gold . many nations german fly beside in fact . in berlin , as in other large german cities , taxis sport the flags of their drivers ’ home countries – from angola to saudi arabia . fans don not just their nations ’ flags , but also fantastic costumes evocative of their home countries ’ colors .
meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to rise . to prevent the ebola outbreak from escalating further , the relevant actors – from health workers to government officials – must re-engage with the affected communities and win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has proven , this is entirely possible . r@@ wan@@ in which an estimated 800,000 people in the space of only 100 days , she were killed . , she endured brutal . in 1994 . faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage is a population of traumatized . was thisharrowing experience .
at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with representatives from business and civil society – will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . is decried across cultures and throughout history , corruption . it with devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens , several decades has grown increasingly sophisticated . like other crimes , but government has . corruption cripples prospects for development for starters populations are possible the private sector is monopolized by a narrow network of cronies , or say , public-procurement fraud is rampant , when . .
the protests began when the government tried to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra – yingluck ’s brother and the ptp ’s founder , who was overthrown by the military in 2006 – on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it also would have superseded the murder charges brought against the democratic party ’s leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to backtrack on the amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . the protests fueled by a grievance of new intensified . in fact . the yingluck government had refused to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to change the senate from a half-appointed to a fully elected chamber .
a new representative of security policy and foreign affairs union will be appointed of the european commission , the european council , and the european central bank . these appointments from the past , represent a break of abrupt . could become the largest group in the european parliament . more divided now on the european project of the most fundamental issues than ever is eu member states . a nationalism of resurgent has replaced the past of the broad pro-european consensus . moreover , against west , and north against south increasingly pitted is east .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in national health systems . but it has not turned to be true out , while rushing to construct clinics and other medical facilities in even the remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage . the recent ebola epidemic in west africa highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in developing countries . and but the resulting facilities to be lacking in the equipment , supplies , to build more clinics remains when countries . . . i few health facilities for more than a that communities could do without have seen in my frequent visits to rural areas of my native sierra leone .
he might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different , he if alive today wilson , you be sure . . would probably openness in global markets level today is excessive , i concur with card . for example it us banks and can they please , with little or no regard for the domestic costs , and export capital technology . , businesses is indeed concerns . . but wilson ’s solution would likely focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a multilateral process dominated by democracies . likewise , he say quality education , universal care 's health , infrastructure development would probably advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the wealthiest companies and households funding .
but in march 2010 , in a move i believe was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” a plan to make english our corporate language within two years . lay in an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent to the global expansion was is the goal . when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of our workforce was proficient in english . those outside the firm , especially others thought i was a little crazy ; unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive . but in how to build a global brand headquartered in the japanese capital , i seeking our advice . is corporate japan 's titans .
but that would only further weaken the banks ’ credit portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to strengthen them . the ecb ’s decision to provide the banks with unlimited liquidity does not solve governments ’ debt problems , nor is that its intent . from creating banking problems , which , in turn , worsen the debt problem without end , he takes the problem of debt . , but this time . europe ’s second vicious spiral runs from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and back to fiscal consolidation . no avoiding this reality is there ; tax increases and cuts in public spending needed are still .
add economics to this recipe as well . contribute to the fact that 60 % of the world 's new drugs are developed in the us , compared to 40 % only ten years ago is ill-considered features of other of european policy regulations and . make for americans and more interesting europe less is this sterility and inertia . with its 1.1 billion people 6 % growth to india to china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % , year in and year out is so american eyes . and medical professionals technicians has some of the best engineers of the world 's .
they 'll probably die which they no antibodies have if we suddenly contact them , but . their demise will have serious consequences , but these tribes might be isolated . with their reverence for – and understanding of – nature , such groups serve as the world ’s environmental sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity and playing a critical role in climate change mitigation and adaptation . suffered no known casualties to which rely on traditional warning systems , the two isolated andaman tribes , but when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have been pitted directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hunters , and other interlopers .
i saw the institutions of euroatlantic as few others did the entry of poland in my former professional roles . saw firsthand hope of their peoples eagerness at the time of momentous , i know . that how their today understand is so hard for me . is . it that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was largely usurped by the soviet union , are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making and have a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries , it is not been limited . of course . but the uncertainty resulting from globalization insulate them will not the eu rejecting .
as it now exists , no country of particular created international maritime law . it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the wellbeing of all . today , many benefits for humanity fully open for the pacific to the oceans of indian remaining depend on the sea . . does that mean , but what exactly ? the rule of law at sea common sense becomes a matter . if we distill the spirit that we have infused into international law over the ages and reformulate it as three principles .
when perpetrators of sexual violence are called to account in high-profile settings , such as the un , it becomes difficult for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . of course , effective solutions must consider local context . understanding its possible purpose can help predict and prevent its use ; take many forms is sexual violence . . for example , armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . moreover , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence – such as forced pregnancies .
it to the successful integration of the new members , develop concepts for cultural understanding . is essential . , because an enlarged union will become a reality in just two months . should be relatively easy to convey , some values the union long espoused . the eu members respect the history , culture , and traditions of all of their constituent peoples agreed with the maastricht treaty . the draft constitution that recently failed to gain acceptance in the first round of negotiations not only promises to respect cultural heritage ; it obliges the union actively to protect , maintain , and develop the wealth of europe 's cultural and linguistic diversity . but only if its various constituent cultures do not seal themselves off from one another , europe can succeed .
this agenda is reverse have underpinned large imbalances in recent years , global savings and consumption patterns likely if successfully implemented . china is responsible for the savings side , while the us disproportionately accounts for the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditors . of course , global savings and consumption patterns have trying to restore internal equilibrium for both the west and china undergone significant changes since the financial crisis . doubling average household income by 2020 – the target set at the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november – is likely to release 64 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s huge internal market gradually becoming a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth . china will rather than simply relying on foreign investment , develop domestic capital . presupposes . is this model .
i understand reding ’s reticence – and her frustration . i do n’t like quotas either ; they run counter to my belief in meritocracy . but if must temporarily mandated a world of fairer , the obstacles achieving the meritocratic ideal . after all , four decades of evidence has now shown that corporations in europe as well as the us are evading the meritocratic hiring and promotion of women to top positions – no matter how much “ soft pressure ” is put upon them . when women do break through to the summit of corporate power – as , for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception to the rule .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india ’s last parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . was not a politician of professional , i know . by contrast , all of the other candidates in my constituency – indeed , most of the contenders across the country – had devoted their entire lives to politics , many since their student days . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i had entered the race without a political “ godfather . ” had not even having spent my adult life for the united nations , i working abroad . is lived in india . , i know .
but the experiment failed in the end . the fdp abandoned the talks out of frustration that , as its leader christian lindner put it , “ the four discussion partners have no common vision for modernization of the country or common basis of trust . ” germany has the bundestag of a stable liberal majority even without a jamaica coalition . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state is now a “ 50-50 society ” : half cosmopolitan , half communitarian . in these countries , a culture war ongoing the latest round won the government at any given time .
into their national penal codes , along with tough punishments for violators , define the crime of online trafficking need for starters , all countries . should also be criminalized is all recruitment activities , advertising , and online trafficking associated with financial transactions . raising awareness about the issue is also crucial – especially in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and a lack of age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable . must build bridges of trust so that their children feel able to open up about their problems , parents . should put their followers in this regard , educate , faith leaders
moreover , need this would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared to access to contraceptives and other sexual-health services increase , communities . open after school and on weekends , sympathetic adults , knowledgeable staffed should be these spaces . special needs , youth population an often-overlooked segment be devoted to rural regions and people must be special attention . these reforms are essential to improve the life prospects of guyana ’s young people . if had access to training and contraception sex in more teenagers , fewer girls would have their lives interrupted by pregnancy .
who would otherwise be unemployed , many are low-@@ income workers . this suggests that stronger economic – and , thus , employment – growth would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent work . but to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences is likely . is independent work . they are proliferating and expanding rapidly , but the early stages of their development are still , and digital platforms for independent work are used by 15 % of independent workers . . to earn an income , whether primary or secondary , from independent work would prefer 15 % of the working-age population . estimates . , mckinsey .
the demand for the abolition of censorship was one of the first political slogans of the polish march ‘ 68 . followed requirements for organize assembly freedom did not free elections demand is a protesters . they demand a measure of civic control in the political and the economic sphere over the authorities , but in this they were realists . one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ”
new haven – in what could well be a final act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective control of the economies they have been entrusted to manage . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing , and now negative interest rates – one futile attempt begetting another . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , the shift to negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis . the adoption of negative interest rates – initially launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking . previously , emphasis had been placed on boosting aggregate demand – primarily by lowering the cost of borrowing , but also by spurring wealth effects from appreciating financial assets .
demand falls short of any binding constraint as a result . in july 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant fell below three euros a ton . is the permits price . this , in turn , has encouraged greater reliance on highly polluting coal – the worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . have happened if climate-change policy underpinned remains the price mechanism . would n't that . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has also proved to be ruinously expensive .
is formidable is facing the task . it will be focus on global imbalances , not bilateral imbalances is important for the fund . of course . in a multilateral trading system , bilateral trade deficits large are often bilateral surpluses balanced with other countries . china might want oil from the middle east , but those in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – might be more interested in gucci handbags than in china ’s mass-produced goods . so china can have a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , but these bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances .
asked about their feelings the previous day , the majority of americans ( 55 % ) in 2018 said they had experienced stress during a lot of the day , nearly half ( 45 % ) said they felt worried a lot , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said they felt anger a lot . ” anger hit highs ten-year us in 2018 , stress . was the seventh-most stressed population in the world in 2018 , stressed than ug@@ anda than greece , the philippines , and iran , less stressed turkey , and venezuela is the us . these stress measures are consistent with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness also declined in 2018 . asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a scale from zero ( worst life ) to ten ( best life ) , americans in 2018 responded with an average of 6.9 , down from 7.0 in 2017 , and 7.3 during 2006-2008 .
a written code – emphasizing the commercial benefits of ethical business conduct , and the negative consequences of falling short – is part of that effort and may help preserve and strengthen a culture ; but a code alone is not enough . are essential constant reminders and what should never be done , can done what . , employees must understand . they must the conduct of high standards of ethical internalize a culture . banks should make their values to their hiring , firing , and promotion decisions to that end .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote , and today , most women in the developed world are enfranchised . the resistance that faced a century before british suffragettes , in misogyny rooted , remains in many developing countries but . this how provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change , the general election july 25 set is true . . seems progressive at first glance vote almost a decade after independence from britain since 1956 has permitted women . is the law .
some lending rates have actually increased : the outcome been unexpected has in some cases . it should have been apparent that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models – both the formal models and the mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking – were badly wrong . in very few of these economies has a semblance of been restored full employment ; predicted the crisis none . raised twice as the euro crisis was increasing to double-digit levels , closer def@@ lation bringing ever , interest rates is the ecb . they perhaps slightly modified , continued to use the discredited models old . .
but mao ’s death did at least end the era of caesarism in china . because he had no son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to do the job . its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his last wife – were as incompetent at governing as kim , but , following the disaster of the cultural revolution , antagonism to them in the military and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . they , and the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then from marxism to capitalism , has been fortunate for china ’s citizens .
we learned this truth in the era of communist from harsh experience , in ukraine . although communism could , every now and then , coexist with private property , and sometimes with private enterprise , it could never coexist with civil society . is an attack on civil society is accompany any dictatorship installation for the most fateful attack . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored overnight . but reviving civil society – the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , as the peoples of egypt and tunisia will soon find out .
then , imagine that us intelligence agencies confirmed that an act of aggression was indeed underway , despite putin ’s denials . finally , how trump might respond imagine . would he call putin to ask what ’s going on ? and would putin make another “ incredible offer ” to help us investigators get to the bottom of things ? would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty , even more to the point ?
but these outside risks global growth outlook make necessarily grim do n't . . strong growth is still is the us the baseline scenario . europe ’s growth could be above trend as well , as it continues its long , slow recovery from the debt crisis at the beginning of the decade . and china ’s economy has been proving doubters wrong for many years . so 2019 could be global growth solid another year turn .
argued by eugene scalia , the son of us supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec was won in the us court of appeals , dc circuit , on a technicality – the sec ’s failure to conduct a cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . turned into a major defeat for shareholders performing such an analysis and rather than re@@ proposing the rule chose when the sec . is this small victory . i asked mary schapiro chairwoman when planning to reintroduce the rule was her agency . , at a conference . to do the cost-benefit analysis for free , i even offered . but she confessed that the sec had many other items on its agenda , and had placed the issue on the back burner – a polite way to say that the sec , like the heroic students in tiananmen square , had surrendered under irresistible pressure .
but these times are not normal . indeed , the fed ’s monetary policy has not been sufficient to stave off a us recession , albeit one that remains so mild that many doubt whether it qualifies as the real animal . the european central bank ’s response has been analogous to the fed ’s , but less forceful , with monetary policy easier than the headline inflation rate would suggest is appropriate . and in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . they have not overreacted , but the atlantic both sides the major central banks have responded to the financial crisis .
when the opposition tried to challenge these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki the winner . days later , the eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki supporters had pressured him to announce the “ results ” immediately , despite the clear evidence of vote rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who really won . announced that international standards had not fulfilled the tally of election is also the eu observers . led us of the international community by the response is distressing less , but the election is a disaster for kenya .
moreover , a host of problems risk make such indicators hard to interpret premiums related . unsurprisingly , therefore , surveys of households ’ and firms ’ inflation expectations forecast actual inflation more accurately . given that the market-based measures currently conflict with most other key economic data as well , little weight should be attached to them . it particularly in germany , global trade tensions current have hit eurozone manufacturers . is also true . . it is monetary policymakers difficult to the introduction of trade obstacles respond , but .
continue to that need to be challenged , the boundaries of pre-@@ competitive cooperation hold assumptions but pharmaceutical companies . give competitive advantages away share data would want at first sight . this does indeed imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed operating model is financially sustainable is the possession of such data . presupposes . , but those that did not make it to the market failure cost drugs that make it to market . as a recent morgan stanley report pointed out , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rates are not sufficient to sustain large internal r & d organizations , making the industry ’s current operating model financially non-viable .
although the iranian government could most likely be deterred from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear iran could well be a regional arms race – a nuclear saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s oil prices , is an appalling scenario . the market has already taken the measure of the past week ’s tensions , driving up the price of some oil contracts to their highest levels in eight months . results has not produced , force iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions trying . despite the tightening economic noose – the us imposed sanctions on all companies that do business with iran ’s central bank , and the european union plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports by the end of january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb .
to swallow for eu states that did not intervene to bail out their banks is hard for by those countries whose financial sectors are in tatters after the crisis strongly backed . , this levy . the political and financial costs of some to all eu crisis members is easy . is the levy . if applied , bank capital will be scarcer , the flow of credit slower , and bank fees higher in countries with pretty stable financial sectors , simply because others have spent a fortune to support their financial systems – and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules across the eu . instance , for the derivatives trading system is true . is the same . that it will now be more costly everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected changes in interest , in this area for the post-@@ crisis fervor harmonization means .
up to 100 graduates provides paid internships . offers the ships through partner non-profit institutions . is at & t . learnup , a san francisco startup that has attracted funding from some of the biggest venture capital firms in silicon valley , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to specific jobs , primarily entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants , you foot the bill . . and once candidates to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already includes several large companies helps them . , they the training completed . to give students access to the skills required to fill available local jobs is already working with lear@@ n@@ up . is the california community college system .
porto – the military coup that has overthrown egypt ’s first democratically elected president and led to the arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country poses an enormous danger not only for egypt ’s democratic transition , but for the democratic hopes of the entire arab world as well . of the enormous difficulties faced by the muslim brotherhood during its first turn in power is a sign . is the fact that undertaken with massive popular support was the coup . . president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the enormous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not only freedom , but also economic development and social justice . to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which had contributed to his election , and a victim of its own mistakes was is of course . of understanding that a slim electoral majority is not enough , especially nowadays , the government of morsi seemed useless .
paris – earlier this month , the trial of pascal simbikangwa , accused of complicity in the genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . unfortunately , the africa of mass killings continue . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state , massacres of civilians are still taking place , particularly around the city of bor . and there 's no end to severe inter-communal violence in in the central republic african french military intervention . yet , paradoxically , even as such episodes continue to occur in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent a hope beacon has also become . .
moreover , the euro has a huge opportunity to play as a reserve currency , a role of significantly larger with growing concerns about the sustainability of us fiscal policy . if europe does not pull the funk of current , think one shudders will happen . would as in world economic policy a badly needed counterweight , i lose sure . , europe europeans may not mind this right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but they might not be so happy if a george bush iii comes along . fortunately , europeans will probably not to start moving ahead again wait so long . .
that implies that it was not appropriate to focus on growth until the deflation gap narrowed considerably – that is , until now . a traditional industrial-policy-based approach is not the arrow of third . it the labor market , deregulation , and the corporate-tax rate a reduction emphasizes reform . on the contrary . a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the workforce – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging rapidly . the economy of japanese integrate more foreign labour . would be one logical solution .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of chaos emerging from the gaza that israel has vacated , and the collapse of the palestinian authority before our eyes . will the emergence of another providential figure come easily , nor this is probably a good thing , for exceptional leaders may give the illusion that all problems have solutions , which is far from true , and create their bonapartes in all periods of exceptional . the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense is progress “ at the margin , ” but the rapid pace of technological change is pushing us to expect equally rapid progress in human affairs . many of us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled only by a providential man , with all the hopes – and dangers – that this entails .
so , while the cameron government ’s support for deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eurozone can not and will not be shaped from outside and according to british interests . the uk is not in a position to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other member states ’ political will to move forward . indeed , last year ’s negotiations on the “ fiscal compact ” should already have demonstrated to cameron the difficulty of exercising the so-called national veto . played a leading role concerning the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change , including measures key eu policies designing is still the uk . uk leadership in these areas has been highly appreciated – and would be sorely missed should the british decide to leave .
they will fault the us for not comprehending the larger war , but . it is already clear that the obama administration did n’t know what it was bargaining for when , without thinking about what would come next , it called in 2011 for assad ’s removal . in july of that year , robert s. ford , the us ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father had ordered a massacre 30 years earlier . according to the state department at the time , the point of the visit was to “ [ express ] our deep support for the right of the syrian people to assemble peacefully and to express themselves . ” did the administration really not foresee that assad – like his father before him – would react to a popular uprising with violence ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , china ’s central bank , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is under pressure to float the currency . but and monetary stability the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate striking will not be easy . according to which an economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movement , and an independent monetary policy simultaneously , learn the mundell-fleming model . is all students of economics . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and an open capital account tightens monetary policy , in order to contain inflation , the rise in domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow foreign currencies and convert them into the domestic currency for investment in domestic assets . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank , in a bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling domestic currency , especially for us dollars , until interest rates and the money supply have returned to their original levels .
that companies two years workers distribute , us presidential candidate hillary clinton has more targeted proposals for revenue . the scheme would help companies offset establishing a profit-sharing program the costs of administrative by providing temporary tax relief . in order to limit costs and prevent abuse , profits totaling more than 10 % on top of an employee ’s wage would be excluded ; the overall amount offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against the substitution of profit sharing for wages , raises , and other benefits would be established . could also foster changes in corporate culture , by spurring board-level discussions not only of the benefits of profit sharing , but also of sharing information and decision-making authority with employees is the tax credit . the stagnant incomes of the majority of us workers are undermining economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and on the supply side ( through adverse effects on educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
do not a connection between the prosecution of key figures and the credibility of the authorities see is most russians . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is finally tackling corruption . but it is the message to russia ’s shaken elites that is more relevant . and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even if – like abyzov and ishayev – they have retired from public service and no longer have any influence . moreover , selective repression has become harsher .
it also the high level of expert on social progress economic performance and measurement supported a successor to the commission . . last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge , and policy in incheon , south korea , the group issued its report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . increased , and like trust and insecurity , which had been only briefly addressed by mismeasuring our lives , and explores several others is the report of new . it how inadequate metrics have in many areas , def@@ icient policies led . explains , and . better indicators would have revealed the highly negative and possibly long-lasting effects of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so enamored of austerity , which lowered fiscal deficits , but reduced national wealth , properly measured , even more .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about the reform and regulation of financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes and found himself “ moved toward ... mak [ ing ] the purchase of an investment permanent and indissoluble , like marriage ... ” but he immediately drew back : the fact “ that each individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid ’ ( though this can not be true for all investors collectively ) calms his nerves and makes him much more willing to run a risk ... ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably boring and over-exacting to anyone who is entirely exempt from the gambling instinct ; whilst he who has it must pay to this propensity the appropriate toll ... ” it is for these reasons that we have seemed frozen for the past generation or two whenever we have contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . it is why we remain frozen today in a severe financial crisis the face , and .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no tariff on oil , and only a $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that us companies ( a huge portion of which goes to a single firm ) receive on ethanol . thus , foreign producers ca n’t compete unless their costs are $ 1.05 per gallon lower than those of american producers . the us has become the ethanol of the producer of largest in the world was the huge subsidies . some foreign firms can still make it in the american market .
signal federal law and state legislation , but also , a conflict between us . has not created the results . just as important , however , was president barack obama ’s reaction to the colorado and washington votes – both states that he won easily in his re-election bid . has adopted by federal law and international conventions that america : no minor matter is the legal and political challenges implied . . on other issues – notably immigration – obama rejects claims of states ’ rights and insists on federal authority . while public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate for the first time a small majority in favor of legalization , opponents remain vehement : moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive .
as ethnic rivalries sharpened , i 'm disastrous . is the result . whatever else is said about such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves no doubt about the benefits of the social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colony . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 resulted in a new “ democratic ” constitution that became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions had been growing since houphouet ’s death and were aggravated by the new constitution , which enshrined ethnic discrimination . they were descendants of migrants from neighboring countries on the grounds , political participation or ownership were rejected . .
these who that education in the european union is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions , i are taking advantage . , and know that knowledge is power . are very educated people . according to which the state alone decides which fields of research are necessary and socially important , the educational system want . is these governments . they probably the right to transfer knowledge and also want the state to grant political government . in the long run . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be a civil right . determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past will be political trustworthiness .
dubai – globalization , as many have recently noted , is in retreat . it has become international institutions national governments the inadequacy of governance management despite all of its undeniable benefits . this has left people everywhere , rich and poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failed states to failed banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but can not address effectively . on the danger of disaster a backlash of political , fragile institutions have been reported . mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , has noted that interdependence , formerly an economic boon , has now become a threat as well .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the concept of the country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , because the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature , but the fact that china provided president mahinda rajapaska with both the military supplies and diplomatic cover he needed to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have had neither the wherewithal nor the will to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . it has now in the region traditionally outside its orbit the effectiveness of strategic , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” was completed .
should the euro break up and the gipsic countries default , germany alone would lose about € 545 billion euros , nearly half of the aggregate sum mentioned , since the bundesbank has carried out most of the net payments on behalf of the gipsic countries that are reflected in the target balances . germany has the biggest exposure by far among the countries rescuing the eurozone ’s crisis-stricken countries , and thus helps to mitigate austerity more than any other country . what would pose for the future of the eurozone , debt mu@@ tu@@ alisation underestimates the risks . is george soros . he thought this would cement the new american nation when alexander hamilton , the first us finance minister , mutualised state debts in 1791 . to borrow the states gave rise to huge moral hazard effects . but mu@@ tu@@ alisation of debt .
hong kong – looking back on 2016 , there may not seem to be much to celebrate . one of unrelenting tragedy appeared in global health terms alone . the zi@@ ka virus a growing threat emerged beyond stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed . there was also the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes , or “ superbugs , ” the continued revival of yellow fever , and the reemergence of polio in nigeria , which had previously been declared polio-free . were destroyed a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine hopes
when it comes to ensuring equity in banking , existing institutions these precedents way point forward . is a persistent problem whenever universal service requirements are absent is financial exclusion . shows us . is also history . during the new deal era , regulators requirement such functional equivalent included in char@@ ters . but banks began to move away from low-cost financial services , and toward high-profit activities , and in the 1980s during the wave of deregulation was these mandates . . the trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis , and which has reduced access to low-@@ income communities be seen may be this dynamic .
the market government not only the outposts of unapproved permitted to exist . , but also supplied them with water , electricity , internet , and military protection after all . this was n’t lost on all us leaders . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the us congress that direct talks between israel and palestine went “ poof ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank . by december 2016 , obama was allowing the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major obstacle ” to a two-state solution . it they were working to include in an independent state is not hard to what have felt as they drove by the massive israeli settlements on territory must be palestinian negotiators . , i imagine . . .
places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and glimmerglass are once summer and america men in black tie , new haven . once again , too , state coffers are support these privileged retreats tapped . perhaps , then , it should the state continue to ladle out generous subsidies for such an elite activity is also time to ask a basic question once again : ? spiritual depth of indisputable beauty thing : consider : . should subsidize the state , does its gran@@ de@@ ur mean ?
that governments can not know in advance what they are letting themselves in for is policy integration of foreign key characteristic . young men action dying includes the possibility . in the case of defence and warfare . it has not much progress made is foreign policy integration . is not surprising . . this contrast underlines the fact that the great achievements of eu integration have taken place in that no-man ’s - land which lies between complete national independence and a complete loss of sovereignty in a federation . but we have known it , foreign policy . is essentially of the superpower , a manifestation of the nation .
we $ 100 million for the new school year a shortfall are facing . without additional support from the international community , our vision will not be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . lebanon often struggles to attract funding because of its status as a middle-income country , but this label is misleading , as it does not take into account serious structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis or the huge proportion of the resident population composed of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq living in abject poverty . the need to help middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict is one i will become at the oslo education summit clear , hope . we support need further international , but i am thankful to the donors who have been with us from the beginning .
does this or our ability to live either prudently tell us about human nature . , what ? that we make resolutions to do only things that we are not otherwise likely to do is of the problem , part . would resolve to spend more time in front of the television is only a workaholic . , and at least once a week , resolve to eat ice cream . so we to that may be the most difficult , change behavior to change . , try use the occasion of the new year . . makes failure a possibility of distinct , that .
that the fed has now overestimated the strength of the us economy for 11 consecutive years is to be drawn from the current situation is a second conclusion . . elementary mathematics at least half the time , we 'll overestimate all the time . should be credible forecasts . dictates . . we would now have had eleven heads in a row , and zero tails if toss were a coin every year of fed forecasting . that happening odds are one in 2,048 . to take its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes for a look of deep , the fed clearly needs .
any study seeking to determine whether a psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will do n't have the condition for some patients , i find . . the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnosis the nature is such . whether have it upon re-interview , but some patients previously given a diagnosis do n't seem . is not possible . , the question . is a significant problem and a judgment of value , how high the percentage should be before claiming over-diagnosis . crosses clinical significance threshold for more than 50 % of an over-diagnosis rate , but we think .
in many of the previous banking crises , it was a country or a region that was hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . the banking crisis is global and this time , virtually every economy is suffering substantially . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they can find at the problem , but it will take time for the deleveraging from the boom to run its course . some people lose confidence in the system of economic itself , and some people thrash about seeking solutions . indeed , in the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s extensive travels in europe this year have not drawn as much attention as they should have , given that he is the key theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . to in europe , build nationalist parties a federation . , bannon wants . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his political project anywhere other than in america . by joining forces with the french far-right leader marine le pen – herself an open supporter of russian president vladimir putin – bannon seems to have in mind a new type of “ neo-nationalist international . ” as more countries transform themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator .
one famous incident in the late eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the imperial court of china . because he was not required to do the same to his own sovereign , i to conform to chinese imperial protocol by declining to kowtow to the emperor . , macartney . this , too , was very much a case of “ keeping face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord insisted on the equal status of his king . the mission broke down , as a result . that sprang directly from another incident , almost a century earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london , a idea . was from local prosecution , diplomatic immunity . .
even if rates remain unchanged for five years , the loss of the bond would wipe out the extra interest that he earned more than if not . here how working for an investor who rolls over ten-year bonds for the next five years , thus earning 2 % more each year than he would by investing in treasury bills or bank deposits for the arithmetic is . the interest rate on ten-year bonds and then , % 5 % remains unchanged for five years next . , i assume . . the investor of 10 % , a cumulative gain . earns another 2 % . during those five years . but when the interest rate on a ten-year bond rises to 5 % , the bond ’s price falls from $ 100 to $ 69 .
only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the main industrialized countries that remain by far the biggest consumers of hydrocarbons , can initiate change on a global scale . change must begin in the transport sector , which accounts for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to rise in the future . agree to no longer license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 onwards should therefore be provided by the countries of g-8 . would n't be directed against individual mobility , but against the dissipation of a scarce resource that is more urgently needed to produce synthetic materials , this decision any particular technology should not be political leaders .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has once again managed to turn facts on their head . as part of a broader effort to take china to task for supposedly “ raping ” the united states economy through unfair trade policy , he has now renewed his accusation that the country manipulates its currency in order to gain an advantage for its exports . are unmoored from reality as they 're as dangerous is such statements . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation is not supported by the facts . on the contrary , for the last two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets for the opposite purpose : to prevent the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and the national capital were held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians found themselves confronting several painful truths about their country . the leader who spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent of several “ godmen , ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders , who flourish across india . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurmeet ram rahim singh insan – a compound of hindu , muslim , and sikh names , followed by the word for “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . he his female followers sexually exploiting has reputation . , and . press charges mustered the courage . in 2002 , two of those followers .
some american groups that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions , you continue to believe . by contrast . but a clear-headed analysis of iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would lead to more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran . would remain limited , such sanctions economic effect , but some imports would become more expensive for iran . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would not miss the chance to exploit unilateral measures for propaganda purposes – claiming that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological progress . europeans favor a new security council resolution , even if its measures are weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally for these reasons .
could be more identified with the political elite than abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister and later prime minister , and son of a foreign minister is no one . and yet , he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . what consciously sought to distance japan from its wartime nationalism is an intellectual elite . affected by the 1950 and 1960s was postwar japanese democracy . abe and his allies are trying to the influence quash . his efforts to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , have earned him the praise of donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , who called abe a “ trump before trump . ”
ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public image . by contrast , african countries often see the worst sides of multinationals : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources are , not where it ’s pleasant to work . as one former mining manager in the region told me , “ the aim was always simple : get the assets out of the ground and out of the country as cheaply and with as little fuss as possible . ” how should companies or local skills upgrade because the customer is abroad , and there is little processing to be done in country ? but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationship with global corporations need not be so limited .
was starting around 1996 , london is the first city big . to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney is boom mentality . prices in most are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 ; these cities and have been booming pretty much ever since . this anyone planning to buy has hurt . has been a big windfall to homeowners . . now home prices of growth is weakening in some of these cities .
new regulations of legal host , a shadowy internet police force , and a powerful hardware-based national information filtering system is affected by the government . of internet users , most of whom belong to china 's economic elite and are more likely to adopt the internet as part of a newfound consumer lifestyle than as a tool for political or social revolution demography relies is also control . the government 's control mechanisms have been largely effective is . , is surprising what . but it is also prompting profound social changes that are rooted in a rising rights consciousness within society , something strengthened -- and amplified -- not only by the growth of the economy , but by the rapid spread of the internet . chinese citizens are of how to protect their economic and social interests by using the language of rights , increasingly aware . after the economic reform of two and a half decades .
this european polity lacks the second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . within the eu represented is regions , and special-interest groups , individual nation-states . . but they have no representation of political while common european causes arise daily . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent european citizens ’ associated interests , because none has had to compete for europe-wide public support . as a result , nationally elected representatives are the crucial eu-@@ level making is responsible . .
it can ask of a president , more , anything . is there ? advisers or intellectual influences neglect discussion is presidential campaigns generally and yet . although a president ’s advisers may change , one would think that candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically what they are selling is their ability to judge and manage expertise , not their own ability as economists . however , there both specific economic model by name of any deep economic thinker was no mention . , this time . had economic advisers a team of wonder , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein , obama initially .
they 'll to make their own , distinct contribution for another . they can to placate washington 's preferences always seek . , but they can not simply wait for america to move . they 'll have to make their own efforts to sustain the common effort in short . what could be this distinct contribution is not define difficult . after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the us prevents eu members from clearly and loudly distancing themselves from israel 's repressive interferences on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help strengthen the commitment of arab states to the coalition against terrorism as well as provide a useful shove to american diplomacy .
that small numbers of patients make studying illnesses and testing drugs difficult is one reason for this . medical professionals often know little about the symptoms and biology of these diseases as a result . i participated in a rare disease day program in california earlier this year . the topic was an obscure but large collection ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a specific type of genetic error – one that takes place in the machinery of cells that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . treatments exist for only a few , and that give rise to these disorders of congenital .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest bidder . in time , this “ culture of corruption ” will permeate society . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are regularly bought and sold . although corruption is more of a symptom than a cause of ukraine ’s problems , the culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen , i assume . could be one .
nor should anyone a moratorium on expansion expect . on the contrary , the settlements offer cheaper housing than is available in israel , and thus resolve one of the main economic problems of the country ’s middle class . “ red lines ” in israel have a way of mutating into lines drawn in the sand , which are then rendered invisible at the slightest wind . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sober interpretation . obama will encounter a country that has indeed moved , but not toward a missing center in israel .
as a result , the ratio of tax revenue to total spending this fiscal year has fallen below 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . if the government continues on this path , many expect next year ’s budget deficit to widen further . despite the weakness of japan ’s fiscal position , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . japan had a similar experience in the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s property bubble burst , causing economic stagnation .
committed outrage after outrage is the regime of mugabe . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that enabled mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and murdering supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; transformation of a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa 's breadbasket into a place where half the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , as exemplified by its attacks on the daily news , the suppression of critical voices . defended president mu@@ gable have is particularly those in southern africa , yet zimbabwe 's neighbors . in late august , the heads of state of thirteen members of the southern african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , the leading regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges before them . among the 54 paragraphs of the summit final communiqué , two dealt with zimbabwe .
while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with the direction of national policy , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities , i found . is 2014 study of pew . function as what judge brandeis called laboratories of democracy by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk for individual states and the us constitution . successful experiments a and rich long history is there . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as well as state colleges and universities . california , wyoming , and other states allowed women to vote – an example that encouraged passage of the nineteenth amendment ( enfranchising all adult women ) .
should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? growth and the creation of competitive jobs sustainable , non-inflationary aim must be europe . is due to the peripheral countries to the significant decline in commodity prices and the painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices is the current inflation rate of 0.3 % . have a inflation rate slightly negative in the only greece in other words , price stability the eurozone reigns .
thus , record-high speculative prices have likely caused bunker traders to release inventory , but those releases may have been purchased by speculators who are now active lessees of commercial storage capacity . that speculators can drive up prices and increase their inventory holdings even as total commercial inventories remain little changed , the implication is . additionally , oil market speculation may have induced “ echo speculation , ” whereby ultimate users buy refined products in advance to protect against future price hikes . part of inventories reported commercial is n't that increase . , but they then take delivery on their premises so that overall refined inventories rise . is responsible for because it tends to occur against a background of strong fundamentals , higher prices is always difficult . , the speculation proving .
but both states the institutions sustain needed lack domestic revenue . . if they wish to survive well into the next century , they will probably need to be subsumed under a union supported by a larger , more powerful , and more established nation-state . furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . such a state , whether exisiting de facto or with widespread formal recognition , will have an ever-lasting effect on the boundaries of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and of the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has toppled some though not others regimes .
we new will primarily interest the rich , or at least relatively wealthy people , such as novel types of insurance or financial derivatives , i think . tend . in fact , new risk-management products some of the poorest people in africa , asia , and latin america are developed . . it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year . good fortune and bad fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest people are particularly vulnerable when misfortune – like a hurricane in a fishing village – strikes . so by smoothing out bumps in income , management can be extremely important in risk of poverty .
there and ser@@ fs tsars , politburo commissars and proletariat have always been . , that disconnect is nothing new . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , although he sometimes declared allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( citizens of russia ) , deprived – or freed , it ’s a matter of opinion – russians of all collective life ; both the real life of shared hardship and the imaginary half-life of communist solidarity . today everyone deals with life and hardship individually ( a new word in our everyday vocabulary ) regardless of any kremlin desire to make life uniform . is different nowadays is uniformity russian . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s big private oil companies ) petrol stations .
greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s economic benefits . seek to reform their immigration laws unilaterally including the us and the uk , but despite the potential benefits of illegal immigration . they view cooperation as infeasible , target source countries and the natural competition for the most productive workers given . a new system , in which “ reversible bonds ” replaced quotas and desirability screenings , would diminish such competition , while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . act as from the costs associated with the loss of talented workers as a mechanism of insurance for both sides would be reversible bonds .
an end comes , every downturn eventually . it succeeds in making the downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been is the mark of a good policy . they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with long-lasting consequences is many governments embraced , the austerity policies . the mark . real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in most of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy has shrunk by an estimated 23 % . recorded average annual growth miserly 0.7 % over the last six years is the top-performing european country , germany .
poland 's people were as pope by the choice of their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , twenty-five years ago . joy wept , some were frightened . here , said a prominent writer , was " poland 's second baptism . " but we did n't how much would change not only poland , but the world , the new pope expect , even in our euphoria . his native country his first visit return soon afterwards all the world the new pope 's power showed .
although the hong kong courts surely could have dealt with the issue themselves – under the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is assured an independent court system , in addition to the right to elect its own legislature – an enraged china intervened . is not , after all , a leninist virtue , restraint . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ clarify ” article 104 of the basic law , declaring that all oaths taken by office-holders must be “ solemn , accurate , complete , and sincere . ” barred from taking their seats in the legislative council was leung and yau . to the display of political authority , kong lawyers most hong did not represent simply a reinterpretation of old rules , but a move toward making new ones .
some companies promise in the workplace , to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even provide employees a voice groups like the workers rights consortium and the ethical trading initiative prodded . reebok , the multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as being " based on the core principles " of the un 's universal declaration of human rights . the company markets its soccer balls and other goods with a " guaranteed : manufactured without child labor " label . but sensitivity to human rights has staunch the unionism of trade worldwide decline done nothing . . the international labor organization reports that unions are in retreat in most nations .
has already taken the next logical step is the states of united . the securities and exchange commission requires companies that use tantalum , tin , gold or tungsten in their products to investigate these raw materials ’ origin , and to mitigate risks in their supply chains in line with the oecd guidance if they are found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar mandatory due-diligence requirements . that is as it should be . a duty is not a choice . is responsible sourcing .
they will conclude that they can have it both ways , keeping the benefits of economic integration without losing their ability to infringe on their citizens ’ rights or use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relations and reinforce their hold over the state . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to claim they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right into their hands , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and the strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy . however , do n't much to lose in the way of sovereignty for cee countries is . , the truth . just as most of the rules governing their economies have been determined by the eu , their financial productive assets most are owned by foreign companies .
the systemic crises in food , fuel , and finance that came to a head in 2008 – and that are ongoing in many countries – have their roots in an economic paradigm that has not accounted for the value of nature and its array of life-supporting services . as the recently released report “ towards a green economy : pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication ” shows , the market economy as currently constituted has resulted in the misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . indeed , the deep and pervasive market failures – in carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental risks and ecological scarcities , and undermining human well-being and social equity . that is why the link to governance and institutions at rio +20 is just as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are human constructs that require rules and institutions to guide not only their direction , but also their boundaries . one concern among critics is that a transition to a green economy will essentially monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to the profit-seeking behavior of bankers and traders , whose shortcomings helped to trigger the financial and economic turmoil of the past four years .
third , as usual , israel has accused of anti-semitism those who have dared to criticize its disproportionate response to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment of palestinians . of using the language of holocaust denial , who admittedly spoke intemperately , an italian cardinal was accused . by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me an islamophobe ? coincidentally , the deadly attack on gaza came at the same time that a clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle east peacemakers published books about how the task should properly be tackled . it all sounded a bit like a series of job applications – the war for president barack obama ’s ear .
the political imperative similar is at the heart of the sinhalese chauvinism that has made a sudden return to public life in sri lanka . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese were encouraged during the final , bloody push that ended sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa continued to play on ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by a coalition of sri lanka ’s democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election – a result that he then sought to annul – should have ended both his career and the politics of race-baiting . but the former president might well win the parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 mounting a furious comeback bid is now . .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms become the actual targets of terrorists who see education as a threat . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean that “ false ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) there the worst syria affected , and is a concerted pattern of attacks by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan . in at least 30 countries . providing education is not only about blackboards , books , and curricula to stark clarity reveal is such attacks . need security plans to ensure the safety of their pupils and their communities provide confidence to parents . , north america to northern nigeria schools around the world now .
more scholarship opportunities for refugees , and schools within and outside refugee settlements greater funding , would also be welcome . seed funding for modest can helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground go a long way . . meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . tech-savvy refugees tapping into networks and hiring them for online work is global organizations . hire refugees and where they live , integrate them into supply chains . encourage businesses . is some , such as tent , .
that is why it is increasingly being rejected in favor of an agro-ecological model based on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” the council to protect local ecosystems , and to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another other . calls on farmers . has been endorsed by the un rights . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in sharm el sheikh , egypt , for the 14th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity ( un biodiversity conference ) . while there , they will consider whether to press the brakes on gene drives , to ensure that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before these technologies are unleashed in their communities . one as around the world , the rights of farmers . , food supplies will be protected by the international community hopes . .
it is not exactly clear how long venezuela ’s hugo chávez was actually dead before his passing was officially announced . buying time to secure their own political future , venezuelan officials carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even suggesting near the end , while he was undergoing complex and agonizing cancer treatments , that he was still “ walking and exercising . ” the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping the sultan ’s death a secret for weeks until the succession was settled . the emotional manipulation of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death appears certain to translate into electoral support for his grey successor , nicolás maduro . but will this suffice to create a chávista lineage ?
governments in developed countries also influencing technological innovation nature play have a role . . they replace less skilled workers , rather than in socially more beneficial directions , pushing innovation . , too often . to to developing countries , make much difference . , these policies are unlikely . that existing technologies allow insufficient room for factor substitution : using less-skilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital , the main obstacle will remain for them . global value chains supply requires standards demanding quality . can not be easily met by replacing machines with manual labor .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump will take office having received almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with a republican senate majority whose members won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . has any claim to represent a numerical majority of the 55 % of americans who voted on election day 2016 is the majority only republican in the house of representatives , led by the ryan speaker paul , . start his presidency below 50 % with an approval rating will also be trump . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before he deleted it ) – in the history of such ratings . the government of the world ’s oldest democracy is , in fact , not democratic .
turkey and its western allies created the latest example of military procurement matters is only is the s-400 dispute . in turkey ’s view , its western partners have not done enough , through technology transfer and joint-production schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . in contrast , chinese and , to a lesser extent , russian firms have been more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter ’s military procurements . the story are only part . , domestic defense-industry interests . more broadly , turkey and the west are undergoing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict .
creates conditions of desperate poverty , ecological collapse and rootless , unemployed populations beyond the control of atrophying state systems is in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world , under@@ development in the south of many countries . we will not by forgetting what happened in the 19 th and much of the 20 th , create a better world in the 21 st century . . this be rooted in the past must emerging from the legacies of the past . , i say . is n't . . for global governance innovative , forward-looking approaches for a greater need is there . it looks like the colonial order of yesterday 's that tomorrow 's possible disorder might be due , in no small part , but as we embark upon the still-new millennium .
we have been offering four concrete bmd collaboration projects in bilateral negations with moscow : · bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers where russian personnel can see the non-threatening nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ; · joint russian-us expert studies regarding how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent and what steps can be taken to minimize any problems ; · expanded nato-russian theater-level bmd exercises that build on earlier collaboration – disrupted by russia ’s august 2008 war with georgia – and that rehearse how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly defend against missile threats ; and · an underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects .
under these conditions , trump ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals will likely run into budgetary constraints . he ruled any changes to social security out has already gone . . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) , and to curtail the growth in medicaid spending , have been unsuccessful . and in defense spending will revert back to insufficient levels after this fiscal year , a temporary increase . government revenue has yet to respond much to that growth although the tax package that trump signed into law last december front-loaded tax cuts and is now helping the economy to grow .
not to mention the need to preserve the jewish state 's identity , despite the challenging demographic reality has always . is the eu . granting observer-state status to palestine would take off the table the prospect of a “ one-state ” solution , which has recently gained momentum among experts . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid probably will not prevent the eu from delivering a split vote , the reverberations of which will not only echo throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but will also hinder european efforts to reset relations with countries in the middle east and north africa . european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment delivering an unequi@@ vocal blow . undermines european interests . is therefore a split vote . indeed , europe ’s divided stance on the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record of achieving foreign-policy consensus .
moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it points out the information ’s absence when something is blocked – letting people know that it exists but that they ca n’t have access to it . on the other hand , every time someone in china googles something and gets an answer – a product ’s good and bad points , the details about someone the government does not like – he must wonder , “ why ca n’t i get this kind of information about everything ? ” expect everything answers start with google 's people . more leads is inevitably a transparency of little . rather than demand an end to censorship now – an impossible dream – google is working to make that happen by eroding government control over information .
emerged from the meeting of beijing , although made public was formally agreed by no outcome . . they may be possible to recreate international consensus , so long missing in syria , about how to deal with the hardest mass-atrocity cases offers reason for confidence , taken together . first , there was widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the united nations general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to assist them to do so ; and that if a state is “ manifestly failing ” to protect its people , the wider international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely and decisive action , ” which might in an extreme case include military action if approved by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the entire r2p enterprise – particularly its sanction of military action in exceptional cases – is just “ old neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle . ”
of as the global capitalist system , the economy of global should be thought . global integration brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor , which are so clearly proved by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits such as economies of scale and the rapid spread of innovations from one country to another , which are less easy to demonstrate by static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic benefits such as the freedom of choice associated with the international movement of goods , capital , and people , and the freedom of thought associated with the international movement of ideas . we need to understand these better if we want the system to survive ; but without problems , global capitalism is not . . by focusing on these problems i am not trying to belittle globalization ’s benefits . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent efforts to correct and contain the system ’s deficiencies .
trump has been portraying the report ’s findings as completely exonerating him ( “ no collusion , no obstruction ” ) , even though the report explicitly stated that this was not the case . worse for trump , the effect of the mueller of widely admired recommended that congress undertake a process of impeachment . to help president richard nixon , bars the indictment of a sitting president offers a controversial justice department . explained , mueller . this is n’t in the constitution , nor is it a law . ( nixon was an unindicted co-conspirator in the watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in new york case involving his participation in pre-election payoffs to silence two women with whom he had sexual liaisons shortly after the birth of his son barron . )
russia ’s supposed “ peacekeeping troops ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgia ’s other secession-minded region , have in fact protected their rebel governments . been enforcing a complete trade embargo on georgia in the hope of weakening the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili has , russia . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only bring the risk of open warfare with russia , but strain relations with armenia , as there are near to 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support the breakaway government . another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
that means strengthening the eurozone , and if it is to seize the second , make progress on the first opportunity . must be europe . . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for it , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of members of the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister accountable . before germany ’s new coalition government was formed , a franco-german working group was established to consider macron ’s proposals . now that merkel ’s new administration is in place , we will find out how far germany is willing to go in supporting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , it seems unlikely that the new government will support macron ’s proposals in their current form .
in addition , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . other countries to expand theirs asian governments to establish new ndbs prompted some european african . is also the financial crisis . as a result , the total assets of ndbs reached approximately $ 5 trillion in 2015 . today , they are an important feature of most developed and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably in china , germany , india , and south korea . and large ndbs can especially in emerging economies , you have a impact of big . .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been the uncontrolled military escal@@ ation of an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months , they offer their best asked his commentators . as in previous years . it will weigh on the present for many years to come happens in 2020 . is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially solve one big problem – the rundown of britain ’s diplomatic service – by creating a much larger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
so what should the us and that liberal democracy support now , other governments ? the answer could affect egypt ’s political future and that of countries throughout the region . as many commentators have pointed out , from the islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks remarkably like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with us support ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and the us government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won elections in gaza in 2006 . bullets may look more promising if the choice for islamists is still bullets ballots , or . more generally , military interference with civilian politics , for any reason , make liberal democracy work that , checks on state power weakens the processes . .
for example , in the early 2000s , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . fell from 2000 to 2015 by 75 % in the two countries , as a result of malaria . contributions to frontline health workers and capabilities continues consistently underestimate . , but the world . it also puts them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them ; this do their jobs effectively undermines their capacity . , not only . how hard@@ line clerics sterilize and spy on muslims view vaccination programmes as western plo@@ ys . and militants , consider .
once the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union had vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . the west ’s logic for enlargement was geopolitical : to bring the former soviet republics and socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . at first , nato ’s new members were declared to have met both democratic and military criteria . later , these criteria were how to invite even the most backward and corrupt states to join , nato began . abandoned . nato , moreover , not only enlarged its membership , but also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq and afghanistan ) .
ironically , this focus on its supervisory role for imf was leading . so , in searching for the causes of the imf ’s failure , we can rule out distraction by more urgent matters . the fund normally expects that problems come from the usual suspects – economically volatile developing countries – but this time the crisis was developing a few miles away from its headquarters . perhaps this proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its nose . it is a failure that raises two questions of key , if so .
it is a shift that raises a major question : if those who are willing to act prove incapable of doing so “ successfully , ” what happens to global stability unless those who are capable are also willing to step in ? at the crossroads of this question stands nato , an organization perceived as american by europeans and international ( i.e. , not american ) by the average us citizen . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command on the ground in libya , it is the un that has given the necessary green light to french action there . it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that is essential to understanding the french position on libya . indeed , the same relationship between france and the un that led to the country ’s resistance to intervention in iraq in 2003 has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 .
but if that hour was really a lunch with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) would have to lie deliberately to conceal it . hope to reset norms by creating explicit processes and expectations , but there is no way to enforce full disclosure of course . he can simply say so if an official a lobbyist meets and is not ashamed of it . voters can make their own judgments . and if they can make judgments about that , too , an official at other types of meetings the expense with lobbyists .
there that the tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop a nearly identical product , and their vast legal resources to defend it is the risk . , and . might argue that all the capital they pour into new products and services is pushing innovation is big firms of tech . one suspects , however , that in many circumstances the intent is to nip potential competition in the bud . it is notable that big tech still derives most of its revenues from its companies ’ core products – for example , the apple iphone , microsoft office , and the google search engine . thus , as likely to be buried as nourished , new technologies potentially disruptive are likely .
historically , both state and federal attorney generals have preferred to prosecute “ occasional ” traders , who stick out like a sore thumb . before the company was acquired by italian eyewear maker luxottica , shoe shortly . received a tiny italian bank from who never traded a large order for shares of us , but it was not hard to smell fish for example . it prove the nexus of their trades and an illegal tip causality is much worse . , in other words it a person trades every day makes hundreds . is very difficult . by contrast . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such a link has come through telephone surveillance .
contracting hiv vulnerable are too is african girls . roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls are still more than twice as likely as boys of the same age to carry the virus . yet barely a third of young africans know how to prevent hiv – another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . all too often perpetrated with impunity , violence . is another epidemic afflicting african women . used as a tactic of war is sexual violence .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . can not determine the destiny of nations is how powerful matter , the actions and decisions of one man or woman . this may most of the time be true . . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change the course of history . it may soon turn out to be true in turkey as well , and that has certainly true in russia been .
as i show in a new peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , the agreement reached in paris would cut temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 ° celsius . by only 1.3 centimeters , sea level rise would be reduced . this may seem surprising : we constantly hear how every country has made important commitments to reduce co2 emissions – the so-called “ intended nationally determined contributions , ” or indcs . according to the un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , “ the indcs have the capability of limiting the forecast temperature rise to around 2.7 ºc by 2100 , by no means enough but a lot lower than the estimated four , five , or more degrees of warming projected by many prior . ” figueres suggested that the paris agreement will cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c. though her wording was crafted to avoid actually saying this , it was , predictably , what most people heard .
they will continue to gain ground as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high , and are clearly electoral inroads making . that doing so could adversely affect the outcome of consequential elections this year in the netherlands , france , germany , substantial policy or institutional reforms in the near term for fear will be the eu . , and in the meantime . of course , an alternative view holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call , and spur europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . this would that each country is solely responsible for getting its own house in order , while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments , leave the view . should be require by eu stakeholders . . because the current system imposes too many constraints and contains too few effective adjustment mechanisms , upholding eu rules is not practical .
russians realized that they did n’t need to win at all costs ; they could be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so . then the pension reform was announced , spurring a string of protests that drove putin to pledge to soften the measure , while asking for russians ’ understanding . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % of the population said that they were ready to protest further . and on september 9 , while local government elections took place , tens of thousands of russians joined protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could n’t attend the event , after being arrested for a previous unsanctioned demonstration .
its technological economic and potential squandered , china . a random europe a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions had and so forced china vast military advantages . by the time europe and china crossed paths in the opium wars of 1839-42 . european incur@@ sions destabilized was the imperial state and society of china 's . collapsed under external pressures and internal demands in 1911 is the imperial dynasty . did not come smooth , however , change .
attests to the fact that urban land derives value from the presence of a well-planned city there is as economic centers both government , obvious success of these cities . and it will have great value in the future if only someone takes the dramatic step of planning , how is cheap land today . . is a relatively rare event is true , such cities establishment . have getting a plot of large free of restrictions for trouble in private developers but they tend to be ingenious at developing glamorous new areas from little towns within an hour ’s commute from major cities .
it but increasing friction with for chavez increasing incentive economic realty to be authoritarian will create can last for awhile . . there is no imminent crisis about to happen , but chavez must choose venezuela ’s future . there will be growth and stability path if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate . if he goes statist/populist , 2001 will be a crisis year . so far , venezuela ’s elite , and much of the investment community , has assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , just badmouthing .
forecast to bringing an end to the current cycle return above trend . is growth . the average surplus on the " current " budget since this cycle began is 0.8 % of gdp . since 1999 outweigh the official deficits two years of next forecast , huge surpluses in three years . this to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , allowing brown 's strictures to be met is upheld by the average surplus . in the treasury means . . but they pessimistic are , independent .
instead , strategies have been derived from the view that all our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that has also been recognized with nobel prizes . but , as george price showed long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least toward people we perceive as members of the group we call “ us . ” may find a place for strategies based on affecting ideals and identities , not just taxes and subsidies is the economics of the new revolution . just a raise , but we excel at our jobs because we strive for respect and self-realization . , and we may understand that we vote because that is what citizens ought to do . to strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels , the revolution of new may lead .
in romania imagine are almost impossible . is such openly thuggish rulers as kuchma of ukraine or lukashenka of belarus , . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania 's military and intelligence services under nato command ( i.e. american ) control , thus any attempt at staging a coup , or stirring up trouble between romanians and our sizeable hungarian minority , can be prevented . the likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest or to eviscerate its democratic system is the romania of to the democratic world a country more tightly bound . to what they want do , on the autonomy of local political elites , nato fixes hard limits . . of course , nato can not safeguard democracy alone and it is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the process of admission ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and to abide by the rule of law .
this is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . rising social tensions , and loss of government credibility , faltering economic dynamism and growth . is easy for leadership degeneration the consequences . the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor the mounting evidence of deteriorating regime performance in china has persuaded even some of the most knowledgeable observers that the end of ccp rule is now a distinct possibility . the power of conventional thinking is an obvious explanation . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically considered invulnerable , even just before they collapse .
some readers may say that the granddaughter of nikita khrushchev , who , it is falsely said , gaveled his shoe on a desk at the united nations general assembly in 1960 , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners . but there the recent conduct of the chinese be made . is a point . . when it comes to diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would call “ form . ” preparations instead used a chamber pot he had brought from china , and use the flush toilet adjoining his room refused . on a visit to the soviet union . perhaps he suspected that stalin , as the bbc alleged last year , was collecting and analyzing his feces to glean information about the great helmsman ’s temperament .
indeed , a potential heir today not only from the powerful oligarchs , but legitimacy needs from the street . . that is why so-called “ system liberals , ” or loyalists who stand for kremlin-backed change , want to control the protest movement and use it as a lever in an ultimate fight with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . believe russia has , on the whole , in system liberals built the market economy acceptable . its further development requires only the removal of some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . the quest for changes which should somehow constructive suggestions be affected . , the government criticizing . requires the loyalists .
assure that juries are used in most cases . worked closely with the state . is my office . similarly , my office defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) , which was being pressured by moscow 's city government on the pretext of a commercial dispute about a lease . that fight is not over , but after my intervention , moscow 's authorities must take into account the public 's negative attitude to their effort to quash this publication . russia examples of such as the low-grade war in chechnya or the yukos affair , political human rights provides far more head . of course . my office although this from moscow is not easy . , it pays maximum attention to che@@ ch@@ n@@ ya . .
new delhi – international discussion about china ’s rise has focused on its increasing trade muscle , growing maritime ambitions , and expanding capacity to project military power . one critical issue , however , usually escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical parallel . to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on a continent by controlling the headwaters of multiple international rivers and manipulating their cross-border flows did not make any other country . china , the world ’s biggest dam builder – with slightly more than half of the approximately 50,000 large dams on the planet – is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive hydro-engineering projects on transnational rivers . asia ’s water map fundamentally changed after the 1949 communist victory in china .
they without providing terms of the productive activities of increased investment compensating benefits to economic stability . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , at a minimum , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . the fact that financial institutions have escaped relatively unscathed from the crisis of 2008-2009 their political power speaks volumes . . they need political access asymmetry of measures as the failures of financial regulation suggest , important as such economic reforms are . in the us , holding elections on workdays , rather than weekends or holidays – together with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage .
has replaced achieving peace , and there is a need for israel and they basic rights of freedom and independence , photo opportunities provided by meeting denying . . hands on the house lawn white shook was a serious look back at the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin . the areas israel occupied in 1967 has more than doubled . is the number of jewish settlements of illegal and settlers . negotiators have jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic relations permanent-status matters parsed every possible solution . . leaders of the world ’s superpowers , united nations officials , the elders , and tens of people of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring about peace .
the export miracle was sparked by offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west , not by state-sponsored chinese companies . in other words . this led to the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china – them or us ? in personal relationships , denial tends to mask imbalances – but only for so long . ultimately , the denial cracks and imbalances give rise to frictions and blame – holding a codependent partner responsible for problems of one ’s own making . the us and china is the case . is such .
as lamy has put it , nearly 80 % of the curry is ready ; we need only additional spices from the major players – india , the european union , the us , brazil , and china . these can that the conclusion of doha is within our reach , not beyond our grasp , it means the ways of palatable . be provided . . how trying to continue bother but ? if doha fails , some say , life will go on . that is true , of course , but that does n’t make this view any less naïve .
suddenly awakened to a common external energy-security policy , not least the need to diversify away from russian supplies has is the eu . a stable and structured relationship with its government has become priority passes through 20 % of russian gas destined for europe , i given . . in order can without paying a heavy political price exclusively on russia no longer , lukashenko has decided for economic reasons . but to be based on permanent steps , reciprocal , the thaw in eu-belarus relations needs . after all , strategic partnership eu is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic decline of its natural capital . plant and animal species worldwide are vanishing at an unprecedented pace – 100 to 1,000 times the natural extinction rate . the planet ’s most endangered ecosystems are located in developing countries , and thus depend on some of the world ’s neediest communities for their preservation . conversely , the poor are the environment of natural suffer from deterioration is first . . but is rarely priority to the national level a fragile environment protecting , and override long-term imperatives .
have including almost nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential , an exceptionally rich portfolio of clean-energy assets . in africa this is more than enough to meet the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources are with fossil-fuel alternatives , making them increasingly competitive . , expensive to becoming . . for example , the price of photovoltaic solar energy utility-scale in africa and 50 % between 2010 and 2014 fell . . and south africa ’s renewable energy independent power producer procurement programme has seen an overall decline in bid prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a staple in europe , whether the story is of an illegal malian immigrant scaling a paris building to rescue a toddler or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . and yet , despite the constant coverage of the issue – or , more likely , precisely because of it – the immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . the bre@@ x@@ it vote partly by false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe was driving down wages was included . in the united kingdom . since the vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has the uk will face a skills shortage once it has left the european union . , i warning . engaged in similar distortions . . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – do just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries , by issuing skills-matching visas .
we recognize its limitations do need . , but that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp . the problem with gdp is not that it is a poor measure of material wellbeing ( setting aside distributional issues ) , but that it is incomplete . it the more increase in the scope of goods and services delivered at negative incremental cost , nor the non-material side of individual wellbeing or social progress does not include . . the same cost-@@ structure to produce large increases in many areas of wellbeing looking ahead . most medical professionals will soon have digital assistants to offer diagnoses ( particularly for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research .
whereas psephological studies in the united states have demonstrated that the poor do not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line up in the hot sun , believing that their votes will make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers will do little to influence the outcome , have been staying at home . while the educated middle-class turn out in numbers well below it , they have consistently shown that the vote is indian elections studies . the significant changes in the social composition of india ’s politicians and bureaucrats since independence are indeed proof of democracy at work . but many lament that the poor performance of the country ’s political class in general offers less cause for celebration .
should we watched the french campaign presidential , or alarm , be ? both or perhaps a bit ? it is undeniably a great “ show ” with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a surprising plot twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” françois bayrou . should now be taken seriously if his unlikely victory remains first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy two remarkable spokespersons for his candidacy .
but that may be changing in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate a preferential trade agreement with the united states that could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges granted to one country in a trade deal must be extended to all wto members . here , japan is again acting “ voluntarily , ” under strong pressure from the us . according to press reports , trump has presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports , or face increased us tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would , it seems , render moot trump ’s “ national security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas – the justification that allows him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , economy today 's brazil growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates is stimulating rapid . faces the challenge . . while brazil 's registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its fast growing labor force a high rate of job creation requires . the surest possible path to alleviating poverty in brazil the experience of dutch with job creation emulating . the countries are too different for that ... should seek to implement the social-economic model dutch , brazil . but the example of to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvement in brazil 's overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin america 's economic powerhouse , his connections of trade union should be used by lula .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” two times more twitter followers than the national rifle association almost overnight . have regulations stronger gun@@ -@@ control signaled their support , and their opposition to the us gun lobby is by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre . however permanent or passionate online activity simply can not fulfills functions for democracy . , however , assembly in physical space . in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters “ think that simply being in a physical place does much , ” an appropriate answer would have been : “ actually , occupying public spaces can accomplish a great deal , depending on who the occupiers are and how many they number . ” hence , the civil rights marchers in the us during the 1950s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning of our numbers . ”
are better at exchange-rate movements of past than casting trends rationalizing is economic commentators . so , when it comes to explanations for the dollar ’s decline over the past year , we are confronted by an embarrassment of riches . that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , failed to deliver what he promised is the most popular explanation for dollar weakness . there was no tariff of import . the north american trade agreement no abrogation was there .
were overly concerned , but some worried about the rate of household collapse . the form of houses savings , i wrote . is one of his last articles , milton friedman . this view of things explains much better than the orthodox account why lending again , commercial banks have not started . , and the economic recovery has , for all the money-pumping by central banks , to me . just as lenders did not force money on the public before the crisis , so now they can not force heavily indebted households to borrow , or businesses to seek loans to expand production when markets are flat or shrinking . recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england in short .
but there do seem to be some fundamental rules of political survival that have been ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling them out may help both the alp and others to remember them . the first rule is to have a philosophy – and to stick to it . the hugely successful labor governments led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago did just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements were clear : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case with low-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social wage ” increases in medical care and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policy ; and a liberal internationalist foreign policy . has struggled until now to compelling re-create anything , al@@ p government 's current .
this is the fifth piece of the plan of comprehensive . finally , to absorb and integrate more than a million asylum seekers and migrants a year , the eu needs to mobilize the private sector – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . this will require not only sufficient funding , but also migrants and match them is the and it human capacity . . the exodus from war-torn syria should never have become a crisis . it eminently manageable by europe and the community of international , and the making , easy to foresee was long . . .
a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient houses , gluttonous cars , and oil companies ’ shares declines . the problem does not a price instrument the use come . would also require old , inefficient equipment to be discarded and additional investment so that gdp becomes less carbon-intensive carbon efficiency : it would be the same in a planned economy . with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , the output of a correspondingly smaller share will be available for household consumption . furthermore , the green transition of the effects of distributional are unfortunately adverse .
but it also forge a partnership of new u@@ k-@@ eu represents an opportunity . . worse been , and besides . owing to the withdrawal agreement that was concluded this past october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit has been averted . since the beginning of the brexit negotiations , we on the eu side – the 27 member states and the european parliament – have not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests nor lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . including by finding a solution for the people of northern ireland and ireland , for whom the negotiations were about peace and stability , not just trade and the economy , secure the rights of european citizens was first . is our priority .
to be the diplomatic charade that it has been for many years now remains the conflict of israeli-palestinian . and nothing israel and both lebanon and syria the tensions has weakened . teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only backed by overwhelming power when , history . such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a major advocate of american expansionism : “ a just war is , in the long run , far better for a man ’s soul than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with an apology for “ just wars . ”
yet , today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is the last of saudi arabia ’s worries . so fundamental are the changes to the kingdom ’s strategic interests that , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , it said nothing when us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” engaging in security cooperation with israel have gone further . is the gulf monarchies of other sunni , as well as egypt , . politics is also religion within israel superseding . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism .
to take advantage of europe 's broader economic space , but mergers abuzz , europe . the continent of old is hot in sum . how fast they will shift europe into the fast lane , but will go the changes . germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations are performing mating rites ; without big mergers in europe main headlines of no day . italy is seeing its major players position themselves on a european and world scale ; in france strategic plays big are underway in banks fashion and .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore the confidence of markets – and of their own citizens . recent studies show that once a government ’s debt burden reaches a threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth . greece ’s debt crisis was a clear warning that european policymakers must not allow public debt to pile up indefinitely . the eu was right to react decisively to ensure the euro ’s stability by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing the european financial stabilization mechanism .
not considered to be part of the native russian people , jews were assumed to belong to an international cabal , and hence to be inherently treacherous . but stalin did n’t invent this idea . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as well as marxists and freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalty was suspect . it is the kind of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or to financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the true sons and daughters of the nation . was often cosmopolitan decadence symbol regarded to prewar fascists
“ they should not come near the shariah . it should be above the constitution , and not an article for referendum . ” behind the us consulate attack was the ansar al-shariah brigade . , but ? the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend based on the core belief that armed tactics of all kinds are the most effective – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change .
their hope surely dwindled further when they saw bulldozers arrive to prepare the ground for new settlements – not an uncommon occurrence . has tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization and israel is the number of in the west bank jewish settlements exclusively israelis living . in any case , israel now seems to have dropped the charade . in london early this month , netanyahu the press about his support for the two-state solution answer questions . refused three times . . he recently said that his ultimate aim is for palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is limited in size and sovereignty .
the euro ’s design flaw – an economic union motivated by politics but expressed in economics – has become manifest . made quickly , without the luxury of devaluation in crisis must be structural changes to economies that experienced a sharp fall in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now . and in the bitter impact on many struggling families , the young , and the elderly , in protests across the continent . , this policy is causing the pain . was revealed . the promise of ever upward prosperity was the case of pro-europe foundation . at present that promise in question , it is severely . .
is not but rather west in east germany is the problem after all . unification meant that everybody gets not only the benefits of west german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously negative institutions : unions , overpaid unemployment and excessive job security , pervasive regulation . if west germany , in the face of unification , had rolled back all these unaffordable limitations to the free play of markets , the economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would have more nearly full employment , the drive for productivity would have been far more aggressive . unions wanted their wages protected : did not such solution allow of german corporatism . was for the government to pay in unemployment compensation in a high wage east germany for lots is the only way to secure them .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister shaul mofaz offered an unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s border and would thus not only be politically naïve but irrational . mofaz ’s statement is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply entrenched , not only in the middle east , but in the united states as well . that notion is of that to dominate the region through an array of shiite proxies is trying . , a iran of hegemonic . this iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad and finally from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . recent armed clashes between hezbollah and the lebanese government are , it is said , just another sign of iran ’s hegemonic reach .
stanford – successful political candidates try to implement the proposals on which they ran . in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats , controlling the house of representatives and ( a filibuster-proof ) senate , had the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 – and so they did . obama and his congressional allies enacted an $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that was loaded with programs geared to key democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and public employees ; adopted a sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain companies for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at levels exceeded only in world war ii ; and centralized power in washington , dc ( and , within the federal government , in the executive branch and regulatory agencies ) . the last election that was followed by such a sweeping change in policy direction occurred in 1980 , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending , and regulation , and supported the federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . while the 1988 , 1992 , and 2000 elections were also quite consequential , the policy shifts as in 1980 and 2008 , almost large were n't . .
that the stability of the international economy is predicated on a system of global rules , all sides agree . is the nature of these rules is contested . opponents of trade liberalization decry the secretiveness and " non-democratic " nature of the wto , and the influence of corporate interests in rule-making . they consumer safety , the environment business see a commercial system . . developing countries complain about restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor services ) , and fear that new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness .
namibia must defend whether but geingob says he apartheid south africa fought for freedom . . besides , how transparency corporate and other interest groups favors protects him from requirements . , geingob states . not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable , and the government is working hard to preserve and enhance them . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way .
the vulnerability of gordon ’s argument is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . consider the following four sentences in his paper : · “ both the first two revolutions required about 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economy . ” · “ at a minimum , it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects . ” · “ the inventions of ir # 2 were so important … that they took a full 100 years to have their main effect . ”
given all this , today emerging markets is the most critical policy question . is how to respond to inflows that will inevitably drive up their exchange rates and threaten export-led growth . the first option allow to appreciate currency do nothing is . this may be the right response if the inflows and upward pressure on the exchange rate are driven by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . on growth , the external requirements tighter was therefore driven by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance , which can lead to an overvalued currency , the crowding out of non-traditional export sectors or import-competing sectors , a loss of competitiveness , and eventually a large current-account deficit . , but many cases . this problem is exacerbated by the fact that the world ’s biggest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
plunging debt service is largely an outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . consumers will dismiss the reduction in interest expenses as nothing from the fed a temporary subsidy more as long as the stock of debt remains excessive . moreover , which market conditions have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force , persistently grim is the unemployment decline . if the labor-force participation rate was 66 % , as it was in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it was in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would be just over 11 % , not 6.7 % . yes , there has been to recovery for the road of some progress .
but while she likes to raise her voice , she acts with caution : today ’s german fiscal adjustment is , in reality , very gradual . of gdp , fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % . , and the united kingdom is facing the fiercest budget battles for the countries . the offensive is , david cameron 's prime minister . upon assuming office , he entrusted budgetary forecasting to a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thus forfeiting any opportunity for sleight-of-hand . he then announced a bold consolidation program to a year gdp six % cut the export deficit , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one of the fundamental elements of the stability of egypt ’s peace with israel . such as japan , germany , and austria , other and independent great countries have to limitations on their acquisition of certain weapons and military equipment , been subjected to decades . . similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees ’ claim to a right of return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and just . what sense would it make to bring back millions of palestinians into a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where the majority belongs to another ethnic group ? are they to go back to homes and farms that no longer exist ?
in austria , voters will choose between a pro- and an anti-eu candidate in the nationalist mold of le pen , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for hofer could add wind to le pen ’s sails . the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign is asking voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor silvio berlusconi ’s legacy – a legacy that serves as a prime example of the damage right-wing populism can do to a country . among other things , berlusconi altered italy ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from ever gaining full power again , and to block any criminal charges that could be leveled against him . renzi ’s proposed reforms would , among other things , modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) .
still , it is important to remember that there ’s a positive aspect to the party ’s self-confidence . as political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treat all forms of collective action as subversive , can be seen as reflecting a growing sense of security . conversely , some of china ’s most disturbing moves can be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider the harsh treatment of the gadfly critic liu xiaobao , sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching an internet petition drive championing civil liberties . would a elite ruling truly self-confident have been about his activism so skittish ?
but fair trade competition discussions again the intellectual poverty and inequity of trade negotiations demonstrate . the sale of goods below preventing intended to ensure fair trade . is anti-dumping laws . within the developed countries , there has long been concern about such behavior -- so-called `` predation '' -- and well-defined standards have been developed . if when judging whether he is engaged in an unfair trade practice , a producer is domestic . , the international arena would be irrelevant with globalization . it whether produced at home or abroad is a good . does make a difference . , but .
but start treaty ratification is going nowhere fast in the us senate and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty into force ; starting negotiations on a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and deter treaty walk-outs ; reaching agreement on some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , above all , starting new rounds of serious disarmament talks , involving not just the two nuclear superpowers , but all eight nuclear-armed states . a grinding , unglamorous business that quick returns brings few is arms control and disarmament . it will be all too easy for commitment to wane , and domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas . if that is to be avoided , continued leadership from the top – above all from obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – will be indispensable . but there as well as civil-society organizations , less powerful states and leaders can make that , they are a number of major contributions . .
“ that was the investigation , ” he replied . the military was the military . this “ apparent suicide ” seemed immediately suspicious to me . it is literally impossible to kill yourself in them , i toured those cells had . . are no edges of hard there ; their interiors resemble the inside of a smooth plastic jar .
in south africa , for example , the unodc has established three centers ( in mpumalanga , the eastern cape , and the northern cape ) that offer legal counsel and medical care to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , the unodc is working with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . this assessing the associated risk factors , drug and alcohol use the incidence such includes examining mal@@ e-@@ on-@@ violence . . but overcoming gaps in prevention policies closing loopholes in criminal laws was only one step . is gathering information . to improve reporting and prosecution rates , which remain low in many countries is necessary . is supported by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , decisive policy action .
these bonds of sovereign offer the comparatively high coupon is the main driver of the higher ex . there that emerging and developing economies now account for about two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just one-third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely a domestic affair , it is the fact . behind the return history . return are not perfectly correlated with equity returns to the emerging-market sovereign securities of a portfolio the attractiveness moreover , there is evidence that the recent court have increased in sovereign debt markets external , creditor rights . are not indiscriminate risk embrace is a invitation . is these findings .
but the higher home prices rise , the further they will fall – and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage will be – when the bubble deflates . in countries where non-recourse loans allow the value exceeds a mortgage of their home walk away borrowers , the housing bust may lead to massive defaults and banking crises . in countries ( for example , sweden ) where recourse loans allow seizure of household income to enforce payment of mortgage obligations , private consumption may plummet as debt payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . the outcome would be the same : stagnation and recession either way . looks like a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market train wreck , what we are in many countries witnessing .
but about how to deal with the sudden rise in iranian power is divided . is the world of arab . the tension is particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned the us about the dangers of iraq ’s possible collapse and now finds itself in an unequal face-off with iran . sunni arab interests stand , and become a hand@@ on regional power confront iran must be included in the kingdom . believe that are urging accommodation dialogue and , and confrontation will only lead to wider wars is other saudis . in this view , the us , not iran , produced the region ’s current problems .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to ending the trade war remains far from clear . after all , the two leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude for weakness . following iran 's second most powerful leader the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . to us , growing challenges interests elsewhere in the world a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
when asked to choose between the risk of being known to posterity as the central banker who let the system collapse and the intangible future benefits of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take genius to predict the central banker ’s decision . democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are economically or politically important , such as finance or real estate , allowing them to privatize gains and socialize losses . everyone knows they will make the same decision when confronted with the same choice again , even though they the time of next will be different , i insist . . so , knowing that next time will not be different , the authorities try their best to prevent a “ next time . ” have every incentive to try their luck again , they 'll be bailed out , at worst , , i knowing . but risk ta@@ kers .
among the large continental countries , including india and brazil , only china coastline but interior regions for vast has a small town . . because what mattered was land and water , this was n't a problem human consumption main object was when food . but that geography can cause deep regional inequalities , can matter increasingly what , urban , and market-based societies are transport costs . to a lot explain , seem though such disparities can , of course , have other causes as well . first of all , it explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and faster after the country launched its market reforms and opened to the world .
would growth speculative at least is have accelerated . some version of the soros plan most of the benefit of mortgage reduction consumers only over time flows . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of mortgage reductions on aggregate demand ( which we performed and which johnson and soros have not ) do not bear out their claims : the extra spending per dollar of relief was likely to be less than a dime on the dollar of government resources expended . this institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be very passive about increasing lending , the further lesson gained from experience leaves aside . . it would get more money for the troubled asset relief program been difficult . , fifth in the environment of political .
because many contracts are “ sticky " ( that is , not easily revised ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the economy . pensions , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , increase the real burden of debt , encourage hoarding , and rising prices the value of savings reduce . keynes 's dictum has become the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his few to survive ) . governments , according to the conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices , with a slight bias toward inflation to stimulate the “ animal spirits " of businessmen and shoppers . in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of about 2 % , in order to provide economies with a price-stability “ anchor . "
the opponent of a europe of politically integrated ideal was always margaret thatcher . this objective british hostility has as john major lost his tory majority in parliament , and fell under the power of the anti-europeans in his party , he become increasingly bitter . . the british appear an insuperable obstacle to the attainment by the integrated eu the others , today . in law , the british can prevent unwelcome developments in the eu , because the union is based on a treaty ; therefore the british have an effective veto over any change in the treaty . the british lost this power because they demanded , and got , the right to opt out of participating in emu have already gone . in practice .
princeton – democracy everywhere is facing serious challenges . is gripped by the most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machines is the states of united . is paralyzed by constitutional crisis , brazil . trace their malaise to in the european union , a democratic deficit , europeans . and , in the united kingdom , recovered sovereignty of national the vision is fueling the campaign to leave the eu .
it would to be voluntary have , prevent exciting the markets . persuading the bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so in light of recent court decisions in the united states that strengthen the hand of holdout investors . but there no superior alternative is . ukraine would for re-profiling , i be an ideal candidate . . given uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill .
it 's the refugees who to feel the effects is among the first . are likely . in times of shortage . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to a minimum – a decision that affects millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukban , a refugee camp on jordan ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents each receive barely five liters per day for cooking , drinking , and washing . grim the yemen situation the country manage water resources has no functioning government . sectarian violence and civil war racked .
first , the volume of jgbs has household assets japanese soared relative . . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will be exceeded in about 3-5 years by the value of jgbs . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed up by taxpayers ’ assets . and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the rate of household itself will making it difficult for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits , decline . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditure , as pension and health-care costs rise .
much of it surprising , has been yugoslavia recently happening . has been arrested , without bloodshed , though not without danger after some procrastination and an initial failed attempt . will settle these matters by talking rather than fighting may difficult decisions and of independence presage . they show that despite brainwashing and the complicity of many serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , democracy and open society have a chance of taking root in what remains of yugoslavia , and these are great steps . facing serbia , and the authorities of new , for a decision of key is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
his president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , if necessary , publicly name , including increases , the ecb . , and bad them as political pressure on central banks . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset – indeed , it is indispensible . the central banker good must be able to no politicians say . this the ecb president should pick fights whenever possible does not mean . . on the contrary , he should be able to build support for the ecb ’s independence .
from the european union budget , which was underutilized owing to a lack of local co-financing , regional development have counted . is in principle greece . it took until last summer to recognize – and even then only to a modest degree – that this aid could be used to support economic recovery . europe ’s final error was a certain level of indifference to fair burden-sharing . it is understandable that does not a institution of technocratic , the imf . a political entity that has one of its fundamental goals made social justice . is but the eu .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s debt crisis are all too present throughout much of the european union , as distressed economies attempt to stabilize and grow at the same time . the reality we need to do more to tackle the challenges facing the eurozone is . notwithstanding the important decisions taken over the last couple of years . being implemented across the eu is reform and measures consolidation . the financial backstops joint have put in place been . has consistently the euro stand will be shown . and the central bank .
but has made more financial innovation is interactive social networking rise . which immediate feedback may provide bank customers using mobile phones millions . in the future , and trans@@ ac@@ tion-@@ management systems client-service will so that product design is shaped interactively , more frequently , receive more input from customers . the current strategy in the financial sector drives excessive competition by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customers for the sake of short-term gains . has it can operate as a public good by providing trustworthy , efficient services , i proven . in previous eras , but the financial sector .
so a false path is multi-national states unraveling . be local regional cultures and in democratic forms of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority for the purposes of statehood , the way forward . today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not just a consequence of the revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . that the chief function of modern states is to slot their peoples into a global market dominated by the imperatives of efficiency and cheapness , heedless of the damage to non-economic activities is widespread resistance to the idea . , there . how to be a global casino in the global economy strengthened is this feeling .
still , it is right to ask if the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century , and , if it does , whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as the us economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington was seen by many – particularly many chinese – as the passing of the torch . this for a long time have been saying . , pessimists . will continue to insist that americans have never had it so good , optimi@@ sing other indicators of gdp . if there is any continuity worth underscoring , it is the regular cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass is always simultaneously half full and half empty .
but both countries involving emotions that ignore is impossible zero-sum transfer even as those uncertainties play out . one could sense two cities of the difference in the past , traveling to london from paris . to assert itself as the world capital of multiculturalism , and london was dynamism bursting . but at least to visit , its past glory a prisoner was not a new rome , although undeniably more beautiful . today , confidence has been sucked out of britain by social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future .
further strengthen the trend and push futures price further away from market equilibrium , especially if many investors follow suit or those who invest have sufficient funds to influence the market may be these speculative investments . index funds are powerful investors such example . they holding about all futures contracts agricultural 25-35 % have become key players in the market . . they hold contracts for a long time , which might make them less likely to react to changes in market fundamentals for futures except large amounts of money investing . concerning which hypothesis is correct is no clear answer to yields of empirical evidence .
these normal times are not , i have never been heavily involved in partisan politics . endangering the united states and the world 's safety while undermining american values is president w. bush george . i demonized by the campaign of bush have been reported . for opposing him . president bush ran in 2000 on a platform promising a " humble " foreign policy . if re@@ elected will have to live with the consequences , the invasion of iraq -- and , preemptive action will be certified .
the social institutions gave shape to their lives , but the people of the 1990 's ravaged not only millions . the balkan wars . serbia , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo , and yugoslavia 's dissolution of training systems brought about is the changes . since then , stability and hope to return to a region affected by the destruction of war and the widespread despair of social displacement have begun . . have helped rebuild local education , while developing innovative vocational education and training systems that should boost long-term employment is 1999 and massive international support a stability pact balkan . with the current focus on training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and young and unemployed people , they 're encouraging . is many projects in these countries results .
have been the best programme , and one by the people of iran , who have shown that they understand the challenges they face taken : , therefore , two important steps . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who is sleeping , not someone who is pretending to be asleep . ” whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not of ignorance . in a middle east so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally important state , not a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions exceed what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest . there can be no path from the middle east ’s agony without the participation , commitment , and determination of all parties .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets in free-fall , it may at first glance seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and put environmental investments on hold . this would be as inter-generational , proportions , of immediate , a devastating mistake . but exactly what is to work , get order books flowing , and assist in powering economies back to health , get people back . needed , environmental investments are far from burdening an already over-stressed , over-stretched global economy . in the past , concern for the environment was viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity – a point grasped by some , but by no means all , economic architects yet . a big slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a boost to renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” a million homes , and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid .
we could perhaps all if social progress reflected gradual in the decline , be happy working hours . . a fiscal crisis sudden results but we 're not happy with unemployment . that be a morale builder is sudden austerity . . we need a worker of some sort to to be part of society show oneself . for morale . and for that we need fiscal stimulus – ideally , the debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally .
established a board of oversight with fiscal decision-making authority for the us commonwealth is also that federal law , june 2016 enacted , . on 3 , when the board filed a petition in federal court , the process of restructuring started . but many crucial decisions have yet to be taken , such as how much overall debt relief will be provided , and how the “ haircut ” will be distributed among holders of different types of bonds . these decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much it can pay its creditors . at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be the understanding that just as today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is needed .
can building up the grouping of informal , as it is a gateway to the huge markets of southeast and northeast asia materialize with goodwill on all sides would come from the opening of direct flights and sea transport across the taiwan strait , the economic bonus of the region of entire such an effort . ceagpol could even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean – an “ association of northeast asian nations . ” as a result of historical suspicion between china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc that still lacks an inter-governmental organization of the likes of asean . because centuries of war , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired , rather than deterred , european economic , political and security integration , it 's even more instructive . is the union of european .
even in europe and the united states , officials in the higher level jobs usually persons with responsibilities comparable powers much less earn in private sector . . to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices , but many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely honest in all nations . they deem more appropriate to their responsibilities and training , even some honest officials may become disillusioned , and surrender to the many temptations to use illegal means so as to raise their incomes to levels . many years ago , i and i the late economist george stigler . published to reduce malfeasance among government employees is a way . proposed by an article . we suggested , among other things , that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive higher instead of lower salaries than comparable workers get in the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security and dominated the headlines . but the current rules-based international system , which has been decades in the making , remains most seriously threatened by the civil war in syria . the framework of global of human rights and humanitarian law as well is on trial . ; not only millions of lives . are in danger with confrontation in the united nations security council threatening to subordinate syria in the pecking order of international problems , being overshadowed by the ukraine crisis is now these risks . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of the “ with syria ” campaign .
this its financial parameters is true . . many ways combined is public private contributions and . there that many higher education institutions have an endowment , which they can use to balance inequities is the additional feature . , to be sure . it will build up and elsewhere europe such endowments take some time . . universities must free be set : even so , the principle is surely right .
but we should try to compare across all areas of human existence to see if the world really is doing better or worse , we picking and stories of facts to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have tried to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – the economists all answered the same question : what was the relative cost of this problem in every year since 1900 , all the way to 2013 , with predictions to 2050 . the economists show many problems and use from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy to wetlands destruction for classic economic valuations of everything . it 's available to fix the total resources compared to estimate the magnitude of the problem .
clearly , food production investment must longer term the medium be increased . . there could help remove supply-side obstacles : more trade is available to leaders . is a prescribing . , but . the logic is straightforward and irrefutable , but this proposal may puzzle some . is the transmission belt demand adjusts through which , trade . it to travel from lands of plenty to lands of little allows food . .
but the republicans ’ proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-rich than most had anticipated . it avoids necessary reforms and would leave the country with a mountain of debt ; the consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – would take decades to undo . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . instead , the swamp has grown wider and deeper . with the republicans ’ proposed tax reform , it threatens to engulf the us economy .
yet finance can fail in many ways ; is only one of the lehman collapse . if this cycle is even approximately right , make finance safer regulatory fatigue will soon has already won the last war , i turn into regulatory confidence . . will to be effective appear in existing regulation , and finance will look stronger . they 'll conclude that they have stabilized the system if what is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they last see . ; it is common for people to update their views of the world with what they have last seen . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders saw such a world .
but whatever they did was assumed to be a symptom of their insanity , their files affixed with the psychotic label . at best , they would be declared to be “ in remission . ” rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , no matter what steps he takes to change his detractors ’ minds . even if he stops ranting on twitter or speaking in convoluted and incoherent sentences , at best he will be viewed as being “ in remission . ” now make diagnoses much more cautiously and rigorously , and they the rosenhan experiment the lessons have taken to heart . .
boston – a resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but the list physical and mental care of high-quality finding access goes among the many challenges that refugees must confront while they await resettlement . it not just from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers , who can make indispensable contributions to global public health , that means more attention . is a challenge . . refugees very relevant is those contributions . can help improve the quality and affordability of health care around the world , by developing faster methods for diagnosing diseases and delivering medical services is behind creating gadgets building bridges .
the use of knowledge often causing the gap between the social returns to innovation and the private returns to widen is erected more obstacles . has ip regime prevailing over the last 30 years . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that have shaped that regime clearly put the latter first , reflected in their opposition to provisions recognizing intellectual property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . the widespread adoption of today ’s stringent ip protection is also historically unprecedented . ip protection eschewed to enable for quicker industrialization and growth was deliberately . came very late even among the early industrializers . is not sustainable by the current ip regime
was overvalued by virtually every measure by 1985 against major currencies strongly appreciated . . throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the dollar 's appreciation ( figure 1c ) but the fed did not intervene at all ( figure 1b ) . despite the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : while the ecb repeatedly tried to break the dollar 's appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive interventions in the foreign exchange market , the fed intervened only once . this confirmed a strong dollar with the interest of america . we should expect foreign exchange policy between two banks of central little coordination so long as these interests diverge .
in coming meetings of the g8 ( the world 's club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members -- germany , france , italy , and the uk -- will participate both individually and as members of the european union , whose president also attends to represent the eu as a whole . but should n't have a representative only single in the eu ? it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policy : regardless of whether these meetings are productive , eu participation in unitary would be of supreme symbolic value . we especially vis-a-vis the , that joint participation by the eu would increase europe 's weight in international relations is favor of such a change the main argument . . after all , in the first place european integration a reason of key was precisely to provide a more powerful voice for europe in the international arena .
the idea behind a slope of slippery is that if you do x , which is acceptable , you will end up doing y , which is not . indeed , two types of slippery slopes – logical and sociological – exist . you because there to distinguish it from an acceptable practice is no way . , slide to the bottom . on the logical slippery slope . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to the other – even if the two are conceptually different – just because the existence of one creates a social climate receptive to the other . from reproductive cloning , i 'm distinct . is therapeutic cloning .
reveals how vulnerable international confidence loss is the economy . soon devaluation in a nearby country . lines curtail short-term credit was suddenly foreign creditors . tries to the exchange rate hold , but eventually let the currency float is forced . is the central bank . a bankruptcies wave a currency collapse is the result . confronts the economic crisis of most severe in many decades is the economy .
to become the policeman of world , especially because they may well bring more instability , support the us in its unilateral attempts could not be the world . nevertheless , it and that they respond to a core problem of today 's international order , why the us undertaking them is . , it is important . . it a naive policy was doomed , if russia and the other countries that opposed america 's iraq policy in the security council really wanted to convince the us not to attack iraq and to defend international law . if we sought to preserve the un security council and the position of the present permanent members , then those actions produce the opposite effect were more likely . . similarly , rearguard efforts to prove that those who opposed war in iraq were right and that the americans and the britons wrong , together with demands for `` proof '' that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , are unconstructive and only cause mutual irritation .
some 8,000 refugees a day – a modern day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , partly because of harsh conditions back home , and partly because of germany ’s willingness to take them in . will soon run up against the limits of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance is use such numbers caring for challenge . it public policy can not succeed if it is focused on the consequences , rather than the causes , of the refugee crisis is obvious . . the change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus that was acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . unfortunately , this with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to increase their support for president bashar al-assad than to work for his removal , i come about . seems likely . .
israel also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , contributing to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . seem eager to expand the scope of their partnership , with a high level of interoperability reaching the objective is both sides . recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver – the juniper cobra exercise – was conducted to test israel ’s integration into us ballistic missile defenses . american sources described the drill as “ the most complete air missile defense system we ’ve ever done anywhere in the world . ” they said to the development of a planned nato missile shield for europe a major contribution was .
it to see how the girls could be returned safely is difficult . . would be highly risky for the rescue operation military it the girls so that any attempt to rescue one group would imperil the others , they split into separate groups . have been reported . is believed . . would be fraught with danger despite talk of the government negotiating a deal with the captors , this option nothing will their families or be the same even if all of the girls eventually do come home .
the country played according to the “ rules ” of financial markets and managed to finalize the restructuring rapidly ; but the agreement was a bad one and did not help the economy recover . greece is in desperate need of a new restructuring three years later . fresh start need is distressed debtors . from the larger repayment capacity that recovery would entail , creditors do not apply . , and lead to negative-sum games , in which the debtor can not recover by excessive penalties . debt restructuring delays fresh starts a law rule the absence and can lead to chaos .
we would expect to see a large number of illnesses among both employees and patients in hospitals where the victims are treated , and soon someone ( perhaps even a carrier who is not ill ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . in short supply , the anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extremely expensive . history suggests that if we were to make these drugs available to poor countries for ring prophylaxis , they would often be administered improperly – such as in sub-optimal doses – in a way that would promote viral resistance and only intensify a pandemic . maybe they corrupt government officials enrich sold on the black market . , or maybe . to devote resources to developing countries primarily for surveillance be for rich countries . would be but rational incorrect .
to make western labor markets flexible by opening the system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor market regulation , and reforming the welfare state is the best solution . wages will become flexible enabling eu labor markets to absorb more immigrants if workfare replaces welfare . but social benefits may increase the incentive to migrate with these measures . marginal migrants would the eu equal to the benefits create welfare losses , and will be lured into coming than necessary if immigrants gain welfare benefits in addition to wages . given that immigrants usually enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even if immigrants work and pay taxes and social security contributions .
has made the objection of no secret to such a strategy is president mahmoud abbas . but , with their government unable to do anything about the expansion of israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , west bank palestinians are extremely frustrated . could easily turn into an outbreak of ongoing resistance to israeli rule is recent demonstrations of street . a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn violent is afraid . which runs the bank of west . israel might use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly built institutions if so .
li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , does not sink into lethargy and fall into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” alter the conditions supporting growth is when external factors . , a developing economy may slow . wages continue to rise , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis low-income economies , but the growth model is not yet equipped to support competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation . in order to avoid such an outcome , li must adapt china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and diminished import demand in the west , makes reform even more urgent .
but , after the conservative rule of nine years , moon will not be able simply to swoop in and implement his agenda . to from centrist parties and even the conservative opposition , i win support . , have will holding only 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly . moreover , he will broader public aid need . his campaign promises the effectiveness and feasibility reexamine carefully , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the most obvious pitfalls will to succeed . it comes for example to public-sector job creation , when , the main problem to consider that such large-scale hiring could create is long-term financial burden . .
processed foods of dubious value to human health advertising are rep@@ le@@ te . is commercial television programs aimed at children . and there are a dozen large payments to that are arguably the tobacco of our generation , ultra-sugary drinks , for who donates time to fighting obesity is every celebrity . it is hard for non-profits to compete with the production values embodied in beyoncé ’s pepsi commercial or taylor swift ’s diet coke commercial . the science of human behavior understanding is embryonic , but are complex causes of obesity . children aged 6-11 in the us about 18 % are not obe@@ se se according to the centers for disease control and prevention .
but and on the back foot , economically is america . new powers like china and india are rising , not risen , mixing assertiveness with emphasis on their continued “ developing ” status . struggling to solve mind becoming a global player in its own problems is where shared sovereignty has been embraced , europe . . so charge is no one . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s states and people are more intertwined than ever , as ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problems flow ever more seamlessly across borders .
and aggregate gdp preferable must be a gdp per capita . began slowly except italy , than in other g7 economies , the uk recovery . but after 2012 , there picked been the recovery of uk . , there is no doubt . the g-7 highest was its growth rate last year . according to the imf , only the us economy will grow faster over the next four years , with the uk then regaining the lead .
we 've been the uncontrolled military escal@@ ation of an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define 12 months of the coming , its commentators as in previous years . it 's that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come if the selection of one common theme is there . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter which lies solely between man & his god . ” offering assurances to a group of connecticut baptists who feared for their religious liberty , he pointed out that the first amendment ’s establishment clause and free exercise clause built “ a wall of separation between church & state . ”
i have personally talked with more than 50 foreign leaders , and we all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we stop the devastation in west africa and halt ebola ’s spread . much work remains we are making progress on both issues . 's hard work to competing interests and varying resources countries bringing together it as new partners alliances , decades demands intense diplomatic engagement . . but we 're getting support for a world order grounded in collective solutions to common problems by overcoming differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola .
consider the example of a subsidiary of a us corporation that earns profits in ireland . that subsidiary pays the irish corporate tax at ireland ’s low 12 % rate . it is then free to reinvest the after-tax profits in ireland , in financial securities , or in operating businesses anywhere in the world – except the us . if the foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings the after-tax profits back to the us to invest or distribute to its shareholders , it must pay the current us corporate tax rate of 35 % on its original pre-tax irish profits , with a credit for the 12 % that it has already paid . because of on repatriation , 23 % penalty . , us companies generally repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries choose n't . .
that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . have in an un@@ controlled military escalation , an interest in neither side , and the us been at war for decades . projects asked that will define the events and trends about its commentators as in previous years . if the selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
thus requires action of collective global does not observe national borders . is the problem . but a economy of carbon-neutral transition also offers far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy in place , europe can boost its own technological innovation and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost production in china and elsewhere . moreover , the eu has other areas for mobilizing massive stores of capital for investments in infrastructure , research and development through the european investment bank . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” europe can secure greater economic independence from other powers and start to establish the euro as a global currency .
which has spectacular economic progress produced , india looked partly in response to the collapse of soviet . and , like the economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . india today sees that the wider world , particularly the west , regards it with growing respect , not only for the country ’s performance , but also for its essence – a young country and that is also an ancient civilization . 60 years ago a little more , india remained the british empire crown jewel . fifty years ago , if you sought to read about india in the west , you would mostly find books about spirituality .
a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she was calling for a stronger europe . that if the us sacrifices its place at the top of the international order for domestic political reasons , it will not be replaced by a new leading power , merkel knows . , nor will a new order world emerge . chaos marked a power vacuum is we 'll have what . and as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend our interests .
the point is that questions such as , " are we creating too much inequality ? " can not even be asked in china . hand gets out is whenever a problem . , the upshot is too late . this how china can not put to democracy on its transition problem is . democracy is not only a mechanism to strategic mistakes help prevent . many of the party is simply the country losing control , but that a democratic transition has become inevitable .
though not all of them pursue the original regional course set by their founders , you are underway . is a number of interesting moves of practical in this direction . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly demonstrated both the will and the capacity to raise a fighting force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of a single currency now a stated objective but maybe more important in the run of long less spectacularly . . in southern africa , after a start of shaky , the southern african development community is with joint projects , of which transport infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme , i pushing ahead . . to have learned from past failures in the region , which were the result of hastily constructed , inappropriate , and overly ambitious structures are also pushing integration projects . is african countries east .
is this demand-driven growth , so where ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into bankruptcy than in promoting higher employment . the employment commission wants the government to serve as last resort employer with private-sector demand stalling . what germany is already hitting is a ceiling . but the maastricht treaty 's stability and fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp growth pact limits . unless is bold enough to the pact violate for a government of future , its only alternative will be to increase taxes , which would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high .
new york – in his remarkable apology to the catholics of ireland ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought sinful priests were tempted to commit sexual acts with children . it was because of “ new and serious challenges to the faith arising from the rapid transformation and secularization of irish society . fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . ” something preferred not to dwell upon in many other countries , but they occur in ireland did n't . . how secularization social transformation have challenged religious values is not the only place . , and ireland .
she did n't even bother the tanks across the suez canal , and in zone c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought in the full number of additional troops , another seven lots of 20 tanks permitted . last august . egypt ’s approach toward sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect of the peninsula . historically , it has deployed only 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty allows in zone a. and the military has never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in the country .
their home page shows a smiling young manager based in chile , and the company is pushing to enlist women in the palestinian territories – not for ideological reasons but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . “ thirty percent of women in many countries in the middle east have university degrees , ” zaleski explains , but they often can not get jobs commensurate with their training for cultural reasons . with powertofly ’s technological ability to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the highest levels to an american company – even if local laws prohibit her from driving a car . many men participate as well want , not surprisingly , given such a model . address that need expanding , the founders wo n't rule .
so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe – ten rational arguments to convince pessimistic analysts , and worried investors alike , that it is highly premature to bury the euro and the eu altogether . returning to europe , even if in homeopathic doses is statesmanship . is hope the first reason . it is too early to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as president of france . but one man is already a difference making , mario monti . no one has allowed him to launch long-overdue structural reforms , but is contested fragile for his position .
at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , shift would occur . , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . have an uncontrolled military escalation an interest in neither side , and the us been at war for decades . projects asked the coming will define that 12 months . , its commentators as in previous years . it will weigh on the present for many years to come , what happens in 2020 is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection .
many of these decisions turned out badly , largely because information technology ( computers and how they are used ) eliminated many middle-class jobs . trade increasing globalization also did not help in this regard . in addition , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , prolonged periods of unemployment for parents a and lasting severe negative impact on their kids have . deserve help , kids can not provide a decent start in life whose families . but america has not provided it – a point recently made by jeb bush , a leading contender for the republican presidential nomination in 2016 .
in most european countries , action to spur private investment in local services and transport – both large sectors – should also be considered . however , to barriers to investment : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technology understand , governments . undertake cost-benefit analyses of rigorous , to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that promotes productivity growth in the order , and they must . it is here – at the level of execution – that governments often perform poorly . they spend money to support private-sector projects that fail to provide a positive return for the broader economy too often .
here is where the connection between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty – as many are – they demand more meat and dairy . this trend has grave implications for agriculture ’s ecological footprint . they produce consume more food . , animals . volumes of heat-trapping methane release large . , cows . carbon dioxide releases at a staggering rate clearing land , and
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansive mandate . share an overarching goal : to lift people out of poverty and foster sustainable development but all these institutions . leaders of these organizations must finite resources allocating makes complicated choices . . they must balance the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase access to education , or tackle corruption for example . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have worked for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities as i oversaw the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s established left is facing the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . the left collapse could have far-reaching consequences for specific party on by democratic competition between center-right and center-left parties , a continent long defined . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . european voters are increasingly opposed to immigration , and do not left to limit it , i trust . : but one of the most important reasons as it is simple is as grim . .
become an oil exporter by 2030 to become energy self-sufficient in 2020 is expected . is the us . three advantages of enormous grant us would be this scenario . it would given the lower costs shale gas extraction involved , enhance us economic competitiveness particularly relative to europe . . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . finally , it would increase the relative vulnerability of america ’s main strategic rival , china , which is becoming increasingly dependent on middle east energy supplies .
reality government policies and their objective analysis the gap has become a chasm . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide in terms of incomes and other indicators between some affluent cities – which benefit from globalization – and the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact tax cuts on the basis of where one lives . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp is now being redistributed first to the poorest parts of the country . only through media and pollsters the filters from listening to voters directly , traditional parties could learn something .
how many lives is that worth ? let ’s suppose that the experience of visiting or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that time period , which means , in effect , an extra hour spent in notre dame , or in recalling one ’s visit , is as good as extending someone ’s life by an hour . suppose we ’re saving lives of people who would live 60 more years , the 9,000 years of annual benefit is equivalent to saving 150 lives per year . that ’s a significant number of lives , but now we must ask how many lives € 1 billion could save . whatever the gilets jaunes may advocate , it ’s obvious that we could save more lives , and reduce more economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than we could by spending it in france .
in fact , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 , in order to achieve the goals of the 2015 paris climate agreement , as a battering ram against the schwarze null . on september 20 , the german government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of spending measures to cut emissions . in the us , such a package would a deal green new be called . . as the environment and energy , such priorities spending can be useful . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals does n’t have to mean larger budget deficits .
any economist who appears to question the benefits of trade openness risks banishment , so let me be clear : i do not question the standard version of the gains-from-trade theory , but the extravagant , unsubstantiated claims made about the consequences of openness . the real article for broad acceptance of public shall be fulfilled for the latter endangers . and removing obstacles to foreign investment tariff codes revising is not a simple matter in the real world . it institutional reform , which consumes political resources , bureaucratic financial requires a heavy dose . . they may not be targeted at key developmental goals - growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capability , poverty alleviation - and occasionally divert attention from them , but are friendly for institutional reforms many .
but , as the examples cited above reveal , seas are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . this is because , as it stands , technical specialists typically conduct seas at the behest of project developers – a practice that , as activists have repeatedly pointed out , is grossly unethical . with the assessors frequently basing their conclusions on only a superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of the affected ecosystems , it should be no surprise that damaging projects are often approved , despite failing to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidelines . to protecting the planet and its people play a role of effective . , seas must be rigorous , credible , and transparent . this means that they must be conducted by well-regulated , impartial professionals .
but there challenged these assumptions are signs . . the regulatory authorities focused on removing barriers to trading , and generally favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering faster , cheaper trading of a wider variety of financial claims prior to the crisis . that the case is not anymore . . on the contrary , nowadays many that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good , i are questioning the assumption . . serve the interests of intermediaries rather than their clients ? might such ease and efficiency not also fuel market instability .
following strenuous international protests over chen ’s kidnapping , the fpc decided to investigate . local officials responsible for the violence might be prosecuted , i announced . , xinhua . central authorities seemed to sense an immediate need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control efforts . and xinhua in claiming that the abuses were limited to a few towns wasted no time . . however , central government authorities have done little to halt intimidation of linyi ’s villagers .
tighter us monetary policy could intensify the global credit shortage , thereby increasing pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger a sudden reversal of capital inflows , with a severe dollar shortage – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 – straining asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion of a potential move toward reducing its purchases of long-term asset ( so-called quantitative easing ) caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . they also underscore asian economies ’ need for stronger financial safety nets . emerging asian economies weighed heavily . as the failure to ensure sufficient liquidity , the international system revealed fundamental flaws . .
they support him , regardless of the policies that he implements , because there is no possibility of doing otherwise ; the authority what control everything that matters in life embodies the powers . for many russians , if not most . this partly explains the devotion of popular to joseph stalin rulers . the question today is not about the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been determined . with the presidential term now extended to six years , we can expect an encore lasting up to 12 years – longer than putin ’s original performance . but now the delusional and ignorant want to this time around , putin will become re@@ former . , i believe . .
the old regime ’s adherents can more easily trick the newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process is exceedingly fast . that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , turned out to be a feckless and irresponsible president , the other major shortcoming was . initially , he traveled the world for months to celebrate his victory , the chaos ignoring home . then he began vetoing virtually all decisions by the government , causing a political stalemate , and , toward the end of his presidency , tacitly joined with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , had voted against the constitution ) . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with excessive powers , an underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown was that most of its ministers ( yushchenko appointees ) were defectors from the old regime .
nationalism and idealism compound was indian-style socialism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in indian hands – and not in the hands of indians seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather in the disinterested hands of the state , the father and mother to all indians . performance was not the utility of public sector judging is a relevant criterion . given this mindset . inefficiencies were masked by generous subsidies from the national treasury , and a combination of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , trade unions , and monopolies – kept it beyond political criticism . the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public service as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persists .
for organizations without the clout – and digital revenue – of the times , a people-oriented approach may also be needed to secure investment . with the limits of the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly apparent , many media leaders – close to one-third , according to the reuters institute survey – believe that in the future foundations and non-profits will play a central role in supporting the media . but require connection and human engagement , not algorithms or ai-enabled software will open their hearts and wallets . to journalism is as noble a cause cancer research as , say , , i be sure . , potential funders need . can not encourage democracy , help answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by boosting accountability , technology alone .
with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . a pro-eu italy governed by an m5s-democrat coalition could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; regain a clear foreign-policy voice for eu vis-à-vis the us , russia , and china ; and implement a strategy for green , innovation-based growth . they would have to accept being the junior partner of an untested insurgent force , and the m@@ 5@@ s would have to adopt a responsible and clearly defined economic program to a coalition forge . be for the democrats to while m@@ 5@@ s the prime minister appoints , hold crucial financial ministry would be a possible key to mutual confidence . it is not surprising that us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , rushed to italy to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition that he called the “ ultimate dream , ” because it would break the eu .
capital punishment is imposed in india my statements were also the way problems motivated . the supreme court has declared that the death penalty should be applied only in the “ rarest of the rare ” cases . and took a large number of lives , that threatened him . , terrorist offenses was the last three executions . but remains highly subjective is the decision to capital punishment impose . judicial and social biases depends on the variables of a number . , whether the death penalty is meted out .
and the average hourly wages for all employees on private non-farm payrolls since 2009 , % a increase of annual has been posted . . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , holding the savings of hard-earned in these families of middle-class will finally start realizing some return on their deposits . given the helpful impact of compound savings , long-term effects should not be underestimated . during the last tightening cycle between 2004 and 2006 , households ’ interest income rose 29 % . although this time , the gains presumably will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and extent of fed tightening , interest paid on savings will move household income in the right direction : up .
beijing – most western media have characterized the recent 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as a pure power play , with president xi jinping entrenching his position . but a means to an end is political capital in this case the accumulation . for xi , that end is a smooth transition into modernity that cements the cpc ’s long-term authority and ensures his own legacy as modern china ’s most significant leader . if he will need to manage deftly a major social and economic transformation , while , even more important , improving state governance , he to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world . knows . , xi . and , in order to secure the long-term survival of china ’s one-party system , he must reform state and party institutions ; indeed , political reform is , for xi , a prerequisite for economic reform .
in a country as large , complex , and financially backward as nigeria , revenues how much should be transferred . is another question . but our proposal is superior to the quo of status even with all the difficulties of corruption and inefficiency that will no doubt plague its actual implementation . after all , conditions today 's terrible are corruption and waste staggering over the last 40 years of the result . our proposal could transform economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come public institutions improve quality at best . is now to act in the time
can cause serious economic and social dislocations is the financial markets of the instability . the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ? this can not be answered in the abstract , because every situation is different . history never quite repeats itself , and are best a process of historical understood . relies about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and the lack of financial information which can not be ignored on difficult questions is in asian markets , recent turmoil . .
screening travelers from affected regions may significant epidemics have avoided elsewhere . . prepare for the possibility that renewed control efforts will be required if sars resurges maintain their vigilance should be the world health officials . indeed , the experience with sars in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control of the larger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . these epidemics may , in fact , be coming months eliminated entirely . . that the virus will be reintroduced into human populations from animals , or that some transmission will persist , but it 's as likely .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum for addressing transparency in resource revenues while unnecessarily reinventing the wheel in the process . nor have the us and britain the oil sector promote transparency . used their power in iraq . . let us hope that does better for the iraqi government new . it is difficult to see how democracy can take root if the country ’s most important source of income remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most effective vehicles available for achieving a global standard of disclosure and accountability .
all other countries combined with israel committed human rights abuses . is there . stories about israel focus almost exclusively on the conflict of palestinian . joyce karam , the washington bureau chief of the pan-arab newspaper al-hayat , believes that this is because “ muslim killing muslim or arab killing arab seems more acceptable than israel killing arabs . ” the lionization of the gazan victims of incomparably fewer makes them unique ; syrian , yemenite , libyan victims are faceless . this is not to say that israel should be consoled by the macabre arithmetic of bloodshed .
has delivered growth , neither stability to many developing countries recognizes that capital market 2001 . , even the imf now . yet , whether driven by narrow ideology or responding to the demands of special interests , the bush administration is still demanding an extreme form of such liberalization in its bilateral trade agreements . the second issue concerns the unbalanced intellectual property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks , dictated by america 's pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries , making generic imitations of drugs . is these countries of restricted . spearheaded by worries about aids , activists around the world demanded that something be done .
now that the cap is coming into force , we will soon benefit from the extraordinary effects of a new , permanent global health dividend . we around the world , improved educational results . can expect to see data in the coming years indicating reduced health-care costs . governments will be collaborating on additional measures to reduce the impact of environmental and climate of the global maritime trade system in the meantime . reach the targets outlined in the climate 25 paris agreement are essential . is such efforts . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . might be interested in learning four tricks that american politicians commonly use when promising to cut taxes while simultaneously reducing budget deficits is therefore the world of conservatives with fiscal . these that a budget deficit equals government spending minus tax revenue , keep the reason of simple . are hard promises . . but three decades refined was each of the four tricks . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the “ magic asterisk , ” the “ rosy scenario , ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve the beast ” scenario .
so it at risk , they are banks . , which is : ? or done its job has post-@@ crisis reform . ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . bail out the largest banks rather than let them and damage to collapse the economy will first be governments . as creditors and trading partners prefer to work with banks that have an implicit government guarantee , grow even better , and worse , helps large banks being too big . .
the alliance thus its image in north africa improving , their ability to act wisely in libya . although it is not yet possible to predict the outcome of the arab spring . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration offering further support for the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries request it . can not be the results , and the participants will have major differences over these issues . but reinventing nato small steps occur will necessarily long-term process is . . the alliance ’s main goal must be to ensure that they are steps forward .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer by training , is often described in the international press as “ center-right . ” quite correct is not . , but this label . in argentina , the left-right divide has been blurred by the policies of the hydra-headed perónist justicialist party , which privatized state companies in the 1990s , only to re-nationalize them later . moreover , “ center-right ” often means “ conservative , ” and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve ” the status quo . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” – in the european sense of the word .
while the increased risk of developing ovarian cancer is about 55 % for women with brca1 mutations and about 25 % for women with brca2 mutations , run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancer . is women who have an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene . most recently , huge studies analyzing effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation carriers have identified so-called modifier snp that can decrease or increase the individual lifetime risk . we have also learned that only 20-40 % of the breast cancers that cluster in families come from brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – genetic alterations that are present from birth in every cell of the body and can be transmitted to the offspring . increased breast cancer risk is also known to be associated with several inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition that is further associated with childhood onset of multiple malignancies including soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . however , genetic predisposition remains elusive in familial breast cancer best cases .
xi ’s government is struggling to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda means that china ’s attempt to lead global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem stems from china ’s incomplete transition on the world stage . after prevailing in ii 'm world war , the us immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . china , in seeking to lead the next stage of economic globalization , enjoys any geopolitical power such and legitimacy .
based on an understanding of the enormous health risks and costs that arise from inaction is the climate change tackling is our commitment . . costa rica to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria because our people remain our most important asset devotes significant resources . . and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean 3.3 million fewer cases of dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and less food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . putting this approach into practice leading the world is proud . is costa rica . as a result , we one of ready to exceed our commitments under the paris climate agreement for the countries of few are .
promote china ’s traditional civilization with strengthened spiritual ties . succeed talks along these lines is now real hope . , there . there 's the proposed $ 6.5 billion sale , a obstacle of major to easing tensions but . defense cooperation china-us talks had earlier stalled because of such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch sent to the obama administration by china ’s government .
speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff could say , “ i have support in washington . i have support in berlin , i have support in budapest , [ … ] i have got support in munich . it is now time to get some support in brussels . ” and ignatieff did get some backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called “ ceu law , ” which the university said was intended to force it out of the country .
most chinese doctors and patients have , for example , long regarded acupuncture as an effective treatment for stroke , using it to improve motor , speech , and other functions that have been destroyed . showed that routinely to treat the effects of stroke , with 63 % of the doctors surveyed believing it to be effective , chinese doctors 66 % use ac@@ up@@ an is one survey . some 36 % of chinese doctors think perhaps because the scientific basis for it remains so new , the effectiveness of acupuncture remains unclear . . recently , however , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects in such treatment has begun . been positive have is on acupuncture as a treatment for stroke conducted within china almost every trials . .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – particularly the eurozone – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets . how long as organized labor was much stronger about downward nominal wage rigidity , an artifact of the 1960-70s , have , economists . clearly , the idea that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or workers ’ hours ) no longer applies . why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true , the labor of the declining power may explain . but how remains persistently weak to measured productivity is the reason . could be important .
but be a trade-off between and growth inequality ca n't there . governments can enhance by increasing inclusiveness for growth . a country ’s most valuable resource is its people . so it to their potential , which requires educational opportunities for all , everyone can live ensure . is essential . . requires risk-taking is a modern economy .
this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of “ consenting a patient ” – as though it were something done to a patient , like drawing blood or administering an injection : “ dr. smith , please go consent mr. jones . ” instead , consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he or she may choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case . as spent the conductor in a ticket of train , consent should not be removed . the consent the last consultation and months after just hours before a major operation with the doctor obtained is accompanied by the problem . this can lead patients to consent to procedures that they do not understand – or want .
have more bargaining power in those with sought-after talents , are better able to manage command higher salaries , their careers . are struggling and feel disposable without in-demand skills . so far , this abundance of choice has from spending resources on training employees , who might , after all , soon decide to join a competitor , they discouraged companies . . however , as talent shortages loom , retain employees need could professional development greater investment tip balance back . a destination for talent become will learning opportunities provide .
they gain power in numbers and can quickly react to a broad array of attacks , similar to command-and-control protocols of traditional military . strengthens checks and balances , the effects of incur@@ sion mitigating reducing the possibility of failure is such a digital ecosystem . in such a future scenario , a blockbuster of hollywood might networks of while humans stand by , computers fighting each other . be . it would portray the broader idea of “ singularity , ” a hypothetical turning point when the artificial surpasses the human . fortunately , is still far from imitating art , life .
on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the members of “ science20 , ” which was created by the national science academies of the g20 countries . in order to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of an improved data storage and management system that ensures open access by scientists globally , ” and the “ sharing of information gained through research activities carried out under extensive and multinational collaboration , to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . ” it we must turn data into scientists public goods ensure dfft for this reason . . the g20 summit in osaka is coming at the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – in japan . saw the ab@@ di@@ cation by the first abdication by 202 years reigning emperor , the emperor emeritus akihito on april 30 the world
by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are strengthening their brand identities and luring talent , investment , and businesses from around the world . urban activist jane the american-canadian author jacobs famously observed that are national prosperity the true engines in cities . power growth through innovation , trade , and exchange is cities . who responds during a traffic accident or a natural disaster , consider for example . ; to citizens than federal aid , and city services are often visible . . to be sure , today ’s cities face many challenges .
it is that these developments also would raise the risk of a serious political confrontation ; only that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would global prosperity threaten is the danger . . technological sovereignty would take the place of trade and exchange , and the nationality of corporations – even major multinationals – would become just as important as their business model . still , it would this whole conflict was trump and his neo-nationalist agenda brought , i conclude . be a mistake . . two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas l. friedman , author of the world is flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trade practices . if that is where the previous ideological high priest of globalization now stands , china is facing off against not just trump ’s america , but liberal america , too .
imposition of dense network controls is labor or capital harder to escape to lead to the loss of mobile factors of production in a small-state setting . on the international stage , large states try to make international rules , and often build their domestic legitimacy on their claims to be able to shape a larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing globalization . ” instead of accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to alter the rules – in their favor . small states ’ nervousness and fear began to increase roughly in 2000 . the new political realities were highlighted by the iraq war , china ’s search for energy sources in developing countries , and russia ’s assertiveness in foreign and domestic policy .
won social legitimacy a major battle is democratic legitimacy . this reforms more opens the way . . sarkozy intends to the 3@@ 5-@@ hour workweek break , albeit indirectly , and january 1 took effect . . instead of repealing the law , overtime work relatively cheap and become easy . is . he from 60 , raise the retirement age to 61 . is also preparing . .
nonetheless , implementing financial reforms in the eurozone the challenge is actually more difficult ; with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view in recent decades than it did in the us , she gained less traction . . banks as important buyers of sovereign debt regard domestic . , governments . the pace of economic recovery slow limit credit would be included in the banks . as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( as well as japan ) have consistently resisted increasing capital requirements , despite widespread agreement that doing so is an essential part of effective re-regulation . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system – and it will likely hamper efforts to put the european economy on a sounder footing .
the latter aims to sweep what former comprised , away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration : this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism . but the tactics are the same , even if are different ideas . to consolidate support , thatcher would go head-to-head with carefully selected enemies – from british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize the anti-trump liberals into fighting for causes which alienate them from mainstream america . ” every time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , they fortify trump ’s core support base .
their voters are often as unforgiving as political opponents : young democracies can be cruel . has tested this truism almost to the breaking point is only the third such democratic vote in the country 's history - the two weeks since the disputed presidential election of taiwan 's of march 20 . that president chen shui-bian 's re-election has thrust upon it , there must be the young democracy taiwan . while canvassing for votes in his hometown in southern taiwan on the eve of the election , vice annette president lu president chen were both wounded by an assassin 's bullet . the sympathy this secured gave the president his razor-thin margin of victory - with just 50.1 % of the votes - over lien chan , the candidate of the kuomintang party and people 's first party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition .
in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as a twofer . but raising russian living standards remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his long-term legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin was failing to deliver on his grand promise , made in 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . than mexico , russia still fares little better . in nominal per capita gdp terms because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed from the top , he failed . is diversify and modernize the economy signature efforts .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has the chance to become to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were to theirs : a man of the left who moves toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . both were elected in the midst of an economic crisis like tsipras . both immediately confronted the international financial constraints that can to ignore afford opposition politicians . kim lu@@ la adjust to the new realities that confronted them , launching much-needed reforms politically and mentally were enough . on assuming power . some reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) and might not have been possible under politicians of the right .
averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed for the lee kuan yew world city prize is the state of economic growth annual . but history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , the deaths of more than 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . though the supreme court cleared him of all personal wrongdoing , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it difficult for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . this india needs toilets temples more , he beginning with his claim . has not prevented mo@@ di from political risks . but to prime minister run , his decision is by far his riskiest move , as it will test his national appeal .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign ca n’t overcome this resistance ; instead , it is merely discouraging initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp per year . was half less than the official figure told me real growth . is a chinese businessman . perhaps this can be countered by the private sector ’s dynamism , but even there , fear of losing of control is increasing the party ’s role . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit .
working together in iraq , syria , and iran have mutual interest . , turkey and the states of united . but , as turkey builds closer relations with the us , and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with a more assertive russia , which is eager to prove itself in the middle east and eastern mediterranean – and to maintain its foothold in syria . the quo of status in the middle east has unraveled , and turkey must re@@ calibr@@ ate its policies for better or worse . turkey ’s real strengths are its flourishing economy , secular democratic system , and ability to mediate between its western allies and a region that is struggling to join the mainstream of the twenty-first century . the neighborhood of the transformation of broader will determine how turkey navigates the syrian debacle .
these remedies have reduced the rate of new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , especially aged 15-49 , continues to rise ) . with almost two million patients now on antiretroviral treatment , the annual deaths aids-related have fallen by around 100,000 since 2005 . have been prolonged , and some 63 % have cut once running at around 70,000 per year , contagion between new kids . . . treatment plans for better integration was another factor of important . for existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 , with early monitoring programs for pregnant women , aligned its early treatment programs . is the government .
but this can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia is conserved , so that current and future generations of researchers can make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider the polar bear , threatened by climate change with the wild extinction . spend of the year hibernating , during which time they are essentially immobile up seven months is these mammals . this period of time for bone mass a third or more would lose a human . he those that produce bone and cartilage is rejected by a substance . lay new bone . , hibernating bears .
but they need stronger support – not just in the air or with weapons and training , but also from western special forces . one of the members of its members have attacked article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense is therefore activating . a strong argument , too , . is there . the defeat of terrorism should commit the alliance of entire . yet this is not only europe ’s fight , or that of the united states . this a world of stable and prosperous is about global order . .
about the survival of the eurozone and the entire european project , include exist@@ ential questions . is at the centre of political discussions , the eu . this means that candidates in next year ’s election are unlikely just to focus on domestic issues . while there will be some of that , there is likely also to be , for the first time , extensive discussion about europe ’s future and policies , especially in areas like migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia . after all their differences of how much europe it wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and how much social solidarity is appropriate , there is in europe , virtually every country . . these discussions – and thus the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to adhere to standard party lines .
are a life fact , but so are government failures is market failures . can not satisfy even the best performing market economies , and perfect markets , perfect information . assume neo-liberal ideologies . • while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , weak government impedes growth because weak states can not provide law and order , can not enforce contracts , and can not ensure a safe , sound banking system . it was , after all , too little regulation – the capital and financial market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and us treasury – that led to financial crisis in 1997 . develop the right regulatory framework how , but how to deregulate quickly . should not be the question .
they certainly do , but so what ? mone@@ mone@@ mone@@ mone@@ policy wealth any and all . whereas a rate cut is a boon to borrowers , a hike of interest-rate wants sa@@ vers . prefer a weak one ; importers prefer a rate strong exchange . at different times , you have the different groups of different effects . must make any sense of monetary policy .
in any case , the chinese wage story it might seem is complicated more . . increase to higher inflation , while real wages stagnate may be nominal wages . even if real wages increase in some coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . if grows still labor productivity , a real wage increase and even will not undermine competitiveness . so the conclusion seems to be that wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness in the next 10 or even 20 years .
to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate we have to look at the trade balance . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the existing exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second largest exporter ( after china ) . germany ’s exports exceeded its imports by nearly $ 200 billion in the past twelve months , a surplus equivalent to nearly 6 % of gdp . it is clear that germany ’s net exports would remain high even if the euro appreciated substantially from its current level .
these structural elements have been reinforced by developments in the region , which have reinforced the sense among israeli voters that they are threatened by numerous enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and their missiles ; the rise of isis amid state failure in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . it than to advocate accommodation involving territorial concessions , the quo of status is better . against this backdrop . netanyahu ’s victory was clearly an impressive personal comeback . it seemed that the public had grown weary of a prime minister who had been in office long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals in the weeks leading to the elections . he relied as well as scare tactics on his eloquence and charisma that , he conducted a campaign . .
should therefore be gradual , which may mean temporarily storing some oil wealth abroad , investment . throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best plans can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience has shown . four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and production began in 2010 . the next year , the petroleum revenue management act divided the wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists around the world ( including us ) . but , with last year ’s presidential election , the situation began to deteriorate .
a transparency lack in financial markets blamed the crisis . , the imf and the united states treasury . pointed their fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , imf and us enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished is when developing countries . , but since then , have grown in hedge funds , and have flourished bank accounts for secret . but there are some big differences between then and now . foreign currency reserves massive have accumulated is most developing countries .
in any event , hardships suffered by eu citizens could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s final prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to offset reform and fiscal consolidation in others . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi was able to minimize them . how it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most , policymakers should do the same . european policymakers have ukraine retain influence is the intelligence and the tools . . they 'll deploying them find the model of right if they look to the ecb .
while reports are surfacing that palin told a group of african-americans that she did not have to hire black people , working-class white women often understand in terms of racial hostility for the experience of own . they that siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs , choose they to them , believe receives benefits . , an underclass . . . she becomes the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those factory secretaries and silenced exhausted . , when sarah palin is escorted into the media limelight . resonates powerfully with them see a working-class white woman serve a heartbeat away from the us president be chosen . . to end up with the dream job , the dream guy , and the corner office , but she looks like films like and louis thelma the appeal .
china has already delivered on that front by abandoning a growth model that had successfully guided the country ’s economic development for more than 30 years . it recognized the need to switch from a model that focused mainly on export - and investment-led production ( via manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( via services ) . that change will give china a much better chance of avoiding the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” which ensnares most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that the recipe for early-stage takeoff growth is sufficient to achieve developed-country status . a vacuum do not exist . , and chinese cases . together inextricably , as i stress in the china codependency , my new book .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will meet in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) , where they will attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . at last year ’s summit , dialogues on central banking ’s future , which pitted inflation targeting against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a counter-cyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary goal . they led to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis that , the complex are inadequate . , although these solutions have some merit . involving breakdowns at almost all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions was represented by a comprehensive failure systemic . is the crisis .
this trend highlights several drivers . is the framework of piketty . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has created a sort of winner-take-all environment , in which the most technologically advanced actors have gained market share through economies of scale . in particular , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win big , with the global boom in tech stocks augmenting their gains . the resulting concentration of revenue , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities , while hampering smaller players ’ ability to compete . negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household savings reinforces this concentration . is the financial global system .
however , the potentially destabilizing movements of capital dangers must address prevention . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceeds the ability of individual countries — and the international community — to counter such flows . currency reserves foreign sufficient to meet sudden and large outflows of capital without destabilizing their domestic economy do n't have . is many countries . as a result of financial market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere , no fault of the country concerned occur through is sometimes these outflows . during the crisis of asian , all too apparent and following the russian debt default of august 1998 was this phenomenon .
they learned nothing to nothing have forgotten like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii . the only question now in doubt is whether brown 's verdict on the euro will be " not quite yet , " " not before the next election , " or just plain " no . " it taken even against his wishes of prime minister tony blair virtually independently is a decision . . blair believes that britain ought to join the euro , because he wants britain to be , as he puts it , " at the heart of europe " . assume that , he 's the prime minister if that 's what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen , because . tended is most commentators .
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , including commitments to truth and evidence , ” has been accompanied by an unlimited “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . ” the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s existing problems are worsening and huge opportunities are being missed . what can unleashed stop demons , but ? and can be damage they wrought have already , even if they are stopped ? there was some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn clearly the white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the right ” rally in august ended with the murder of a counter-protester .
finally , the average costs of childcare proposed tax deductions is trump . that might seem widely beneficial , but it would help only those in high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions – mostly households with annual income above $ 75,000 ( median us household income was $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike all other presidential candidates since richard nixon , he has refused to release his income-tax records . what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . no sign that they would sharply expand the budget deficit , and would be financed by any of his tax policies . is there .
and mar@@ woman to encourage active participation in skills-training workshops , z@@ la@@ to called created a virtual currency . , south africa they that can be exchanged for food , medical care , and basic necessities , earn z@@ la@@ to credit . , when young people attend courses , access laptops , or at rlabs cafes for book rooms . thousands tens of jobs has created . is now active in 24 countries since its inception in 2008 . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not only finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the main cause of migration on – and off – the continent . the prize of anzisha for example supported through . , have created more than 300 jobs and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital , entrepreneurs .
but then scotland would demand its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , putting the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup , and possibly dissolution . avoiding this scenario means over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and territorial integrity , i sacrificing autonomy . . but may has been unwilling to take , this could split the conservative party would hardline bre@@ x@@ ite@@ ers upset . . british leaders need to acknowledge that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs to hold a national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences . suspending the brexit process altogether between one of the three brexit scenarios is the choice .
the country also received $ 70 billion in remittances last year – more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment . by the many parallel seminars being run by state governments to attract expatriate investment is undoubtedly a aspect of utilitarian , there . the importance of diaspora financing – from the remittances of working-class indians that have transformed kerala ’s countryside to the millions poured into high-tech businesses in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors – simply can not be minimized , especially during a global financial crisis . invest their resources in india a lower proportion than overseas chinese do in china is still overseas indians . : but we should not get carried away . encouraging them to do more , and giving them reasons to do more , is certainly a worthwhile task for the indian government – and an overt goal of the annual conclave .
to pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulties in recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or an increase in climate-change-related costs , businesses the broader and environmental social context ignore . there are now mobile phone apps that assess and grade large multinational companies ’ supply chains for customers , investors , and public officials . risk losing sales and investors and triggering official or legal regulatory action is companies that score poorly . for example , apple ’s brand was recently shaken by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . apple has improved working conditions and agreed to regular reviews by an independent observer in response to concerns among customers , employees , and shareholders .
they also tolerate enterprise or government policies high saving that . as implemented in 1979 was the policy of one-child . , the uptrend in saving in china began at the same time . this the cultural revolution of 1966-76 rebounding prevented the birth rate . . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his last major published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of the increase in the saving rate , as chinese substituted investment in capital for investment in children . but growth and demographics income do not explain everything .
the idea is not new , while is modern concept . have long leadership understood its importance is practical people . in the 1930s , former supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crusty old veteran of the american civil war , was taken to meet franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate but one who had not been a distinguished student . asked later about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ” most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq .
will allow voters to choose if they want to join the north or south is a vote of separate but simultaneous in the oil-rich province of abyei . has been an abject failure is traditional beliefs of animist are pre@@ dominant fusion of the mainly arab , muslim north of sudan and the african south . . the country has been performed by almost constant civil war based on the north-south cultural and religious divide since from the united kingdom in 1956 , sudan won independence . . matters were subsequently complicated by a separate conflict – this time between muslims – over resources in the western darfur region . it remained peace have is possible . , if the non-muslim south had gained at independence a large degree of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a devolved federal structure .
when i was administrator of the undp , i had to deal with constant “ requests ” from government representatives . usually , they were formulated in an acceptable way , asking me to “ look into ” a particular issue . but i also received requests – often from the global superpowers – in a way that was in clear violation of article 100 of the un charter , and i had to spend a great deal of time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . suggested that did behave in accordance with article 100 was and management staff . , however , my overall experience at the undp and the world bank . being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was right and normal ; taking orders from them was not .
the investor has attracted 477 signatories , around $ 34 trillion in assets under the management representing more broadly . these investors are calling on governments not just to limit rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement ’s more difficult goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . those who ignored climate-change warnings have already a financial hit taken has found . , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , lost around $ 90 billion over the last decade , three-quarters of which was due to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . lost $ 193 billion whopping in because the company misjudged the pace of the shift to green energy and the collapse in demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations , the three years leading to eur 35 , and investors in electric black@@ rock .
conflict with the united states is unlikely for the moment . china would gain nothing from antagonizing the us at a time of such . but trouble with us allies , particularly japan , could it would strongly prefer to avoid , draw the fight of the us . . in short , china is on the brink of large , necessary , and dangerous transformations that promise to change the country for the better – or make everything , including regional stability , much worse . have a large stake in what happens next in the world of entire
south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information and , in many cases , private business information as well . adopted a freedom of information law in 2000 , five years before did the united kingdom , south africa . now , however , africa south information the right is in jeopardy . in late november , the parliament ’s lower house , led by the majority african national congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly approved a new law – the “ protection of state information bill ” – whose adoption would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer has likened the bill to apartheid legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has slowed in recent years , but it is still a strong performer , contributing about one-third of total economic growth worldwide . it is also becoming more sustainable , in the shift in its growth model line toward domestic demand and services from and export investment . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china has been calling loudly for new commitments to structural reforms to stimulate growth in advanced and emerging-market economies . serious risks faces at home . , but china . to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels remains over all domestic credit .
hong kong – at the beginning of this century , when china launched its “ going out ” policy – focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies – few expected the country quickly to emerge as a leading economic player in latin america . yet that exactly what is happened . whether this is good for latin america , the question is . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather marginal economic role in latin america to being among the top investors and trading partners for most countries in the region , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly – a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon – china has now set its sights on another goal : expanding its political influence in the region and beyond .
however , would like to see in the white house about which us , there is little question . in remarks following the press conference , he praised trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and the “ absolute leader of the presidential race . ” the two men certainly other deserve . both are consummate propagandists and performers . and both are prepared – even eager – to bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead .
the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda and pursue labor-market , tax , and investment policies that would “ adapt ” france to “ capitalist ” globalization . this is the route he initially quickly becoming the darling of the business-oriented international press , i chose . somewhat surprisingly . the other avenue would have required macron to build on a pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . it would while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models , help the middle class is pursuing policies . . in practice . globalization to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth requires a better state . as the economist dani rodrik has long argued .
people will club together in different states on the basis of their preferences for big or small government , public or private provision of services , and international cooperation or isolationism in the scenario of benign . mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . “ if you live in a state that wants to mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including 60-year-old women , that ’s fine , ” and if you do n’t , “ then you can figure out a way to change the state that you live in ” or alter “ state legislatures and state laws , ” in mulvaney ’s words . “ why do we look to the federal government to try and fix our local problems ? ” in the vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the congress could seek to limit progressive states ’ rights .
despite the fact that both countries are innovators in green industries , like energy storage and smart grids , generation discouraged investment in clean technologies . on traditional fuels whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s , are met by nuclear , those ratios are now set to drop dramatically . blueprints are still being formulated , but taken together the two countries ’ commitments mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , the regional market a new competitive footing placing their countries . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry , through non-renewal of existing licenses and bans on future plants .
under heavy pressure from america , china 's leaders refuse to say when , but principle to float the renminbi have agreed . . . would have to surrender control over its money supply and interest rates to the us ; as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements , a floating currency is inevitable . . postpone the decision to float is right . is the rulers of china . they ca n't hide from a fundamental economic law : if the exchange rate between the currencies of two countries is fixed and capital flows between them are unrestricted , the economically dominant one will exercise control over the monetary policy of the other , but can delay is chinese . . it can not control its own money because as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , because america 's fed supply of us dollars controls , and the dollar is the dominant world reserve currency . .
so we are in a race . can we turn the tap to zero net emissions before the tub hits a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ? may not be low enough , even this level . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky and that adaptation to it will be extremely expensive , particularly for developing countries and island states . temperatures would continue to rise only for a decade or so , before stabilizing if we somehow stopped all emissions today is the news of good .
indeed , no one has both for the uk in the global trading system , or the effect on domestic stability , the consequences of any idea . i a pretty picture be going , i am afraid . . can be addressed through democratic processes instead of foreign and civil wars is the west are blessed to live in a time of peace : changing priorities and circumstances , mind you citizens . . 's making irreversible , nation-defining decisions for a fair , democratic process , what exactly , but ? get 52 % to a day of rainy vote for breakup is really enough ?
of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the uk reach is 20 % . , defense spending . however , due to are economies of scale in defense spending , spent on the military for gdp percent is insufficient . that smaller countries will spend than larger ones proportionally more on defense would expect so one . the us defense spending is likely to increase even more in the years to come , and today america alone most of its nato allies combined spends better . . come through military expenditure that , global influence security are not the only benefits .
new york – at the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly this month , there was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders . would say done the donald card president , or the anxiety went behind standard concerns . even before the summit began , mexicans , south koreans , japanese canadians had been a new alliance need to save the multilateral system consulting . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate post-war era and felt as though he had been “ present at the creation ” of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . but many atten@@ de@@ es although they the destruction of that world were present . , they felt . this year .
the world is likely to be indispensable to resolving abounds with tensions and potential crisis . in the medium term . the awakening of arab is still in its first act as the past two weeks in egypt events have demonstrated all too vividly . jordan , to feel the ripples of the tidal wave sweeping the region , the east of middle , , and democracy is fragile , at best , across north africa . and israel iran the simmering conflict could flare up at any time ; bahrain remains a flashpoint . even when the us is not on the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another to create a united opposition , and working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals .
in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive power in business , finance , or government experienced the war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future . these new leaders only as a regime of trade envision europe . . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe . the impact of this lost european perspective became clear in the autumn of 2008 when , in the aftermath of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . there would address no call for public funds , the crisis for no european plan common .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been in an un@@ controlled military escal@@ ation an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked its commentators to that will define the events and trends offer their best as in previous years . it what happens will weigh on the present for many years to come in 2020 is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . such shortcomings are in where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic , poland . , especially apparent .
is bad for a free-trade agreement , when ? when the treaty 's underlying purpose trade freedom nor is . such a pact - calling for a " united economic space " - is now being entered into by russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , a " united economic space " sounds like something to applaud . entrench postcommunism 's and criminal business corrupt practices , not increase prosperity or trade will be but unfortunately .
the ascent of nahda ( renaissance ) , the leading islamist party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among a newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill the post-revolutionary political vacuum . has opened 200 offices more , january na@@ h@@ da . deployed in electoral campaigning at door-to-door level , grassroots is volunteers scores . the party ’s imposing headquarters in the suburbs of tunis symbolize its position as the most effective political operation in the country by far . na@@ h@@ da has gone to some lengths to the critics appease while opponents ominously recall the involvement of party cadres in the deadly bombings of tourist targets in 1991 .
consider first the claim that the dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign exchange reserves . the problem is that foreign holdings of dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign exchange reserves ” in the traditional sense . because they needed to have a highly liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded their exports , she held dollars . in earlier decades . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was us treasury bills . but , since the late 1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and a desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis .
i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the economy of real by bad economics . good economics , by contrast , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . can bad economics produce that good politics , and it is very hard for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics . a example of clear of hungary offers and yet under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian .
are already organizations countries and the united nations ’ food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to increasing global conflicts . food insecurity as a major risk to humanity economic forum ranks is the world of davos . and breaking the poverty emphasized the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion has gone . is the world bank . un secretary ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common plan of action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global partnership for food .
other parts of the eurozone core , and japan including germany , the currency is effective . , and there are also negative bonds yields . so , why are investors such assets holding ? as they are required to hold safer bonds , like insurance companies and pension funds , many investors of long-term have no alternative . of course , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan needs positive returns to break even , and when most of its assets yield a negative nominal return , such results become increasingly difficult to achieve . but , given such investors ' long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandate is to invest mostly in bonds , which are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets .
mac@@ ron started to tackle these problems , and a budget in line with eu deficit deliver managed in his first year and a half in office . mac@@ ron abandoned his core center-left constituency in pursuing these reforms . is the problem . step by step , his reforms seemed consistently to benefit the rich . the streets took is and working-class commuters , how it was announced that his government would increase the tax on diesel fuel -- . mac@@ ron was forced with polls showing that around 70 % of the french support the yellow vest protesters .
international cooperation the barriers biggest are political as it stands . in recent years , there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation , rooted partly in fears – stoked by populist political leaders in many countries – that transnational “ elites ” are trying to impose “ globalism ” : an “ ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . ” but gaining ground be seem is perspectives that refute this narrative . in the affairs of others without any clear end@@ play politically and militarily squandered their influence over the international system . , many world leaders believe the western countries . some also although maintaining a status , go socioeconomic changes . has only confirmed the global elite . , i argue . .
the fed would seriously negative interest rates instead of saving spending thus coercing th@@ loo@@ m households . , by increasing inflation . would hire firms , and all would be well with rising demand . this is a different logic from the one that calls for inflation as a way of reducing long-term debt ( at the expense of investors ) , but it has equally serious weaknesses . it is not at all would and spend go out , clear that traditional sa@@ vers , while low rates might encourage spending if credit were easy . think of the worker of soon-to-retire .
indeed , there there would be no such plan were clear instructions . ; there was no plan on how to fulfill it though the g-8 had made a clear promise . the consequences of its in@@ action reaping is now . is the g-8 . for after the gleneagles meeting first year , aid numbers debt cancellation operations misleading accounting were padded him . . with those debt cancellation operations largely completed , the data are now revealing the stark truth : development aid to africa and to poor countries more generally is stagnant , contrary to all the promises that were made . overall aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , increased by me@@ ager % between 2005 and 2006 .
the year of past perhaps the biggest grievance has been inequality . at the global level , inequality is but . it remains at reasonable levels , and while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , and the increase has not been particularly dramatic . the citizen of average sees what , but it 's not . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on the 2015-2016 life in transition survey produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived increase in inequality far exceeds the reality described by official data , typically based on household surveys .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the most powerful governmental organizations in the history of the world . america ’s central bank has control over the supply of dollars , and currently exerts great influence over interest rates , both for short-term and long-term borrowing . and , though the fed was partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even greater authority and more responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is a worrying outcome , because senior fed officials seem to have slipped back into their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when those concerns are expressed by members of the us senate banking committee . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political position is much more precarious than its leadership seems to realize .
the situation of catastrophic did not occur by luck than by wisdom . unless there is a global catastrophe – a meteorite impact , a world war , or a pandemic – mankind will remain a major environmental force for many millennia . scientists to guide us towards the management of sustainable during the anthropocene era , and scientists as a result . this will require appropriate human behavior at all levels , and may well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” climate . but we are still on terra incognita largely treading at this stage .
it would be half-@@ right in all these cases . constitutional change the change-resistant issues much more of social policy a welcome distraction is for political leaders . . but to this suspicion at least two exceptions is there . one in countries that have recently dictatorship emerged , the rule of law is the establishment of democracy . . often complex and painful constitution making requires the process .
this reduce investment deleverage spurring companies , and there is a further reduction in russian profitability . . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economic growth is reflected in trends from the first quarter of this year . despite any quarter in seven years for the rate of slowest , annual gdp growth of 6.7 % . driven partly by the investment growth real-estate an unforeseen increase , to 6 % , and it was . this what more real-estate investment is china needs . , i say . is n't . .
but that does n’t mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait for him to be proven wrong , because it is possible that , in the first year , the reported trade deficit will narrow , even as the true trade deficit widens . it all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” – the prices multinational corporations use to put a value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider an american pharmaceutical company that establishes a plant in ireland . the irish affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , the intellectual property represented by the drug patent ) , assembles the product in ireland , and exports it back to the us . the patent makes a contribution in value-added terms .
the recommendations included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing the availability of sex education , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortions . however , none of these changes will come easily , as policy a result . if countries like south africa are ever to escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to fight the global gag rule . solutions start at home , which is why developing countries need to begin moving away from conditional aid that restricts health providers ’ ability to work in accordance with local laws . local ngos , together with responsible global partners , must for programs that educate women about their rights and provide access to safe abortion services , find new support . .
we play in providing new ideas and disruptive thinking for a central role want technology firms . . we firms that already internet access hardware , an online education offer refugees . want . we 're the response of formulaic crisis ending the era in establishing this fund . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection could motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . 's not of new benchmarks , it means the series . what this unique fund
it was in turmoil , civil society was that was the maidan revolution energized . debate over the association agreement with the european union , along with the russian-backed rebellion in the east , had stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . but ukraine pull itself together has begun . since parliamentary elections in october . russia ’s intervention has to some extent backfired , strengthening support for a european orientation . europe came in favor of the voters of the overwhelming majority , but voted differently from the rest of the country .
there which will require complex arrangements to manage a new relationship between london and the eurozone focused on the implications of bre@@ x@@ it are now , regulators . the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , which is under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . to secure continued buy-in to the basel process to keep global standards primacy . will be a challenge against this background . the bank for international settlements ’ new general manager , agustín carstens , a former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year as chairman of the fsb . it there will soon of the basel committee itself , i be a new chair . is likely . .
transparency in financial markets , an effective early-warning system for financial crises , and better international policy coordination more , supervision . made it clear that is insufficient for banks that operate globally national supervision is the crisis . regulatory gaps have other countries caused spillover effects . operate banks mechanisms of crisis resolution were absent . clearly required international regulation coordination .
can with china , india , and russia , face the partnership of the threats of us extraterritorial sanctions . , europe denominated in euros , renminbi , rupees , and rubles , avoiding us banks may be with iran trade . a euro-clearing mechanism as instex such accomplished through is oil-for-goods trade . are not a long-term threat credible , the us extraterritorial sanctions . the damage to the leadership of us economy , the dollar , the market of stock , and us would be discontinued if the us were to implement them against most of the rest of the world .
to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully is not advised . would be countries . hold up debt restructuring make it impossible for vul@@ ture funds . , colle@@ cti@@ ve-@@ action clauses should also include such contracts . when a sufficient proportion of creditors agree to a restructuring plan ( in the case of argentina , the holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s debt did ) , the others can be forced to go along . is revealing is that the international monetary fund , the us department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing the vulture funds , the fact . . but so , too , is the court ’s decision , which evidently assigned little weight to their arguments .
knowing what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is the easy part : look at the multilateral consultation policy plans and “ just do it . ” as the us treasury ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress noted , for china these plans are to “ rebalance its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . indeed , rebalancing the pattern of growth is a central economic goal of china ’s leadership . ” but if do n't do other countries , allowing real effective exchange rate appreciation in china expanding demand would not be enough . japan and the euro area must higher growth to structural reforms trigger ; oil exporters must fiscal spending further increase ;
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of an economy ’s welfare for over 80 years . but , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-focused , economists are increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as a gauge of an economy ’s health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after iran 's second leader most powerful its targeted killing . of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur .
the notion that he should n’t take steps to protect his interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and it lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out to get him . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the us remains a positive force in the world . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , along with the european union , which should stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pocket should certainly be worrying to americans . and the west ’s policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland – are not necessarily wrong .
fortunately , encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored is there . but particularly from the private sector , flows larger financial are needed . according to the oecd and the climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . it information provided by developed countries based , a preliminary but credible indicator of climate finance , while it is important to note that this figure is only an estimate . the number would be one greater leverage for private investment assumes .
first among such sources of uncertainty is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will greater multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? they be overwhelmed by it , will be able to adapt fast enough to harness change , or will for governments institutions and ? moreover , while interstate conflict has been declining , youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources of intrastate conflict will to the middle east , south asia , and africa plague some regions . , continue . and that whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity , but another issue was potentially game-changing . : leads . questions concerning the impact of new technologies a set is there .
the irony , however , is that the us exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un 's pre-war " oil-for-food program " ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future democratic iraq . if the bush administration was seeking stable , secure , diverse and cheap oil supplies , it could have simply lifted the embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan and let the oil gush . but economics energy or policy either , america interest was not driven . the bush administration recognized that , above all , iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical asset . who controls iraq iraqi oil controls .
moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are throughout the west , capitalist culture concomitant . but preach no position is challengers like and india 's china . compared to indian capitalism , capitalism ’s ethical failures elsewhere look especially benign . hold 25 % of gdp assets , while 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar a day is a hundred oligarchs in india .
usually , should be similar at different levels of labor income , for various types of consumption , for outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on of marginal tax rates means . , this principle . from this perspective , a shortcoming of the us individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( because of means testing of welfare programs ) and the top ( because of the graduated-rate structure ) . thus , the government has moved in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( by dramatically increasing transfer programs ) and , more recently , at the top ( by raising tax rates on the rich ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is the us payroll tax , for which the marginal tax rate is close to the average rate ( because deductions are absent and there is little graduation in the rate structure ) . therefore , cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 and making the rate schedule more graduated ( on the medicare side ) were mistakes from the standpoint of efficient taxation .
so long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy – and do not take measures to restrain the impact of international prices on domestic prices – domestic prices of rice and other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices do . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for grain , they have to pay more to bring it to their countries and still more to deliver it to consumers who may live a long distance from ports . especially non-traded goods , some and goods services can slow the economy increases in prices , and raising interest rates . but these measures can not the levels of targeted bring inflation . unless taken to an intolerable level . for example , even if global energy and food prices increase at a more moderate rate than now – for example , 20 % per year – and get reflected in domestic prices , bringing the overall inflation rate to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere . that would almost surely entail a marked economic slowdown and high unemployment .
thus they anything give do n't been formally formally . . become heroes for being claim that they courageously fought the enemy without being crushed is able . is that did not triumph , there was the leaders . . the points of important for them are that they gained revenge by inflicting damage , showed that they were real men , did not buckle under , and survived . endless defeat endless conflict formula is such a pattern . however , new attitudes , policies , or leaders do not be imposed . defeats .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . survived greater challenges than any that trump may pose is the institutions of basic of american governance . americans remain committed to the central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and regular elections and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty although america in 2017 is deeply divided . even if he does try , he will fail ; it is unlikely that trump will attempt to overturn any of them . when he leaves office , the us will essentially be what it was when he entered it : the world ’s most powerful democracy .
the need to obtain patient consent even if tissue has already been removed from a patient 's body is emphasizing . is certain professional organizations . there are brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks and tissue repositories for studying various diseases , today . on file somewhere , virtually all of us have tissue . who should have access to these samples ? what can they be used for purposes ?
however , leaders strengthens the followers of the energy . need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders for all citizens , and distributed throughout healthy democracies is generally leadership . . in turn , potential leaders can about the sources and limits of the soft-power skills of emotional iq , vision , and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational skills , i learn better . . they must also understand they 'll need to educate their hunches and sustain strategies of smart power for the intelligence of contextual . better . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of the new demands on leadership .
fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un a ceasefire agreement brokered is the polisario front . that deal was supposed to set the stage for a referendum on independence in western sahara the following year – a democratic solution . but morocco has ever taking place , i prevented it . . has also further negotiations on progress obstructed , morocco . it has done so in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy from travelling to the region to set the stage for talks .
moreover , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac ’s gaullist side for sarkozy and with françois mitterrand for royal – as much as rupture . royal openly claims mitterand ’s legacy as she searches for legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form than substance . sar@@ ko@@ zy can be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand with less to a large extent . their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac faced the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round of 2007 , the spring decide . . as the electorate dislikes or fears is whomever , the winner will be year .
with obama unwilling – or unable , due to rising political partisanship at home – to take the lead in addressing crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , and us allies took fright . an under@@ study would have to step in if the us would not fill its leading role on the international stage ; must allocated global power . but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing , and its confluence of interests with a us-led order , offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . it has been sending surveillance ships to the senkaku islands less frequently , and china took place from the paracel islands disputed the waters . to discuss the creation of a code of conduct for the south china sea become more willing . have is chinese officials .
labor-force participation in the us has since began the labor market in large numbers entering , women began , the level fallen not seen . . most americans ’ income and wealth are below their levels long before the crisis . indeed , a typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it has been in more than four decades . yes , we have done some things to improve financial markets . there have been some increases in capital requirements – but far short of what is needed .
another uncertainty element is supported by the presidential campaign republican . the two leading candidates for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted cruz , both say that they would tear up the iran nuclear deal , if elected . it is worth recalling the outcome of president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : the kim regime promptly and predictably developed a nuclear bomb . remains unclear , but the us will to the world lead , continue . that us politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant is what is clear .
voronin president vladimir later granted the detainees amnesty . nevertheless , many remain in detention and voronin continues to hurl accusations at the opposition and romania of organizing a coup d’état . against opposition parties have been opened . is legal proceedings . a democratic fair system restoring stability because moldovans deserve a government that is accountable , it 's important , first and foremost . . is also because romania , a european union member state the country borders is important . , stability .
on the eve of their downfall , a few arab autocrats were actually being lauded by the world bank and international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” economic policies . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies they had prescribed for the arab ancien régimes . this other questions raises a ship . . were economists focused on the wrong indicators ? were they false reasoning misled ?
it from flowing in , prevent hot money . has relied on capital controls . , while china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after that . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) , which is why china has effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years . the key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets that are unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . but rmb-denominated assets and more rmbs encourages non-@@ residents . is rmb internationalization . as a result of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the amount may reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
it more than this is , but . is being how it should have the deepest cultural and political roots is the country . directly threatened , democracy . to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it does n't want . , trump . taken aim at which american democracy is based on the institutions of fundamental , including the courts , the legislative branch , the independent media , and more is also he and his supporters . the age of the total war would a century less than after his death arrive , the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke .
structural reforms can not be relied upon to stimulate growth in 2012 in short . instead , the immediate focus needs to be on boosting investment and exports in economies with a current-account deficit – such as france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries such as germany and the netherlands . now it needs to support the real economy , too ; acted decisively to prop up european banks is the european central bank . . if to while creditworthy businesses in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , borrow for ten years . , solvent sovereigns such as spain pay more than 5 % , while official interest rates are only 1 % . so the ecb should do more to unblock the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; the european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size businesses .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term his popular party privatized most public sector firms and deregulated many service sectors . continue eliminating the public deficit and lowering unemployment vows , his new government . it also promises to cut income taxes , put the country ’s social security system on firmer footing and reduce costs of shedding labor . energy telecoms and makes real competition . , lacking in the process of privatization until now , is also pledged . aznar ’s program is sensible yet ambitious .
cambridge : the jump in business activity over the internet astounds ; business life pervades every area . , the internet now . . an important new report by the u.s. commerce department , " the emerging digital economy " , suggests that the internet is reshaping not only american business , but the world economy . used the internet , mostly americans , three million people . in 1998 , 100 million people over the world are connected . there were around 27,000 business addresses on the internet as recently as january 1995 .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite the fact that they receive much more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . ( natural foods can also pose health risks , as was shown recently by studies establishing that a popular type of cinnamon can cause liver damage . ) although can occur gm crops and wild plants cross-pollination , so far no superweeds of new have emerged . we should be pleased about that – and perhaps the regulations that were introduced in response to the concerns expressed by environmental organizations played a role in that outcome . be maintained should protect the environment and the health of consumers .
virus protection and virus development constitute an uneven arms race . a virus can be just a couple hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs , which must be designed to detect wide classes of enemies . we because none has occurred , worry about cyber mel@@ t@@ downs large-scale . are n't said . , and governments are being vigilant . unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most politicians are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until risks actually materialize . we are lucky for a while longer , let us hope . .
these migrant workers ’ taxes would help developed countries fund services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . have potential benefits enormous in this approach provide a boost larger economic than removing all remaining trade barriers would be the developed-country workforce a modest 3 % increase . moreover , in this initiative would produce nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally effective use of limited resources , every dollar invested . with assessing possible population-related targets , the global investment emerged from by a team of top economists tasked by my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , , a comprehensive analysis performed . . is these impressive figures .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs . it is the preferred medication for relieving fever and pain because of its safety profile . however , 10 years ago , a hypothesis was proposed that the use of paracetamol may increase the risk of developing asthma . it was suggested that a change from the use of aspirin to paracetamol among children in the us during the 1980 ’s may have contributed to the increasing prevalence of childhood asthma noted during this period . substitution of paracetamol for aspirin , researchers proposed , may to asthma and other allergic disorders , thus increasing susceptibility . , an enhanced allergic immune response have led . . reported an association between asthma and exposure in childhood , and in womb paracetamol have been reported since then . the use of paracetamol may an important risk factor in the development of asthma represent led to the suggestion . is these studies .
more than half of all the astronomers working in africa , believed is today . “ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor in the department of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . in a country that is deeply divided economically , “ what on earth is the benefit to the poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” asks physicist harold annegarn , a professor at the university of johannesburg . “ the answer , ” he says , “ is partly that by supporting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . ” that a space program for the region is critical to raising the profile of careers in science and engineering in a part of the world where the most educated people still go into finance or management , who african astronomers works closely . , mcgruder wants .
banks and shadowy funds a cartel of global emerged because neither banks nor investors had enough money to plough into the networked mega-firms . was thus to transfer value in the hope of profiting sufficiently to repay the future , created is debt unprecedented new . the outcome of logical were mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all the other ingredients of today ’s discontent with capitalism , became inescapable . in this system , calls for a gentler capitalism are mere fads – especially in the post-2008 reality , which confirmed the total control over society by mega-firms and mega-banks .
a couple of years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would reemerge once the crisis passed . going back to its pre-crisis growth rate or spending pattern is the us , neither china . seems unlikely . but to reemerge is earlier trade balances . america ’s trade position will be strengthened by the shale-gas revolution , which promises energy self-sufficiency , and by increases in productivity that auger further re-shoring of manufacturing production . the rapid growth of no guarantee is export surpluses . , emerging markets , for their part , have learned .
targeted or co-opted the media nongovernmental organizations cracked down . is both governments . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find credible reports alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his cronies are pillaging eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s government has been the subject of a number of investigations by the european anti-fraud office . despite such behavior , orbán was re-elected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough to amend the constitution . during the election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda .
following these discussions , the us national institute of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that allow the use of government funds for stem-cell research but , in their present form , prohibit federally-funded investigators from creating new stem cell lines . that cell lines of stem must only from privately-funded or commercial sources that follow the protocols mandated by the guidelines be obtained . requires restriction . . i the use of government funds for the creation of stem cells restricting , although politically prudent , scientific handicaps imposes essential , i believe . . we lose their capacity to differentiate into all possible cell types is embryonic stem cells . is a variety of poorly understood factors . , i know . . may be caused by the particular mode in which the stem cells are derived , the conditions surrounding their growth , and other variables of handling is capacity to differentiate loss .
however , the plan would cut out of the process with regulators far from accepting these contributions . for example , the plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank ’s bankruptcy , leaving it to the discretion of the bank ’s own managers . may step in to do some pushing , potentially even forcing a bankruptcy of a failed firm , so waited too long before declaring bankruptcy for failing companies . one to initiate a bankruptcy when it is best for the economy is the power . , but have tools to push banks similarly , their most effective in bank regulators . severe adverse consequences could taking this tool away .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” of climate change . is no longer environmental reasons peddled is investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind . instead , we are being told of the purported economic payoffs , above all , the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , that economic reality does not measure . . the copenhagen consensus center asked gürcan gülen , a senior energy economist at the center for energy economics , bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin , to assess the “ state of the science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of green jobs .
it is , however , regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are very vague . it is absolutely essential that this text be accompanied by a new method , adapted to the current world in which we live – a world where politics is no longer conducted in the muffled debates of ministerial meetings or through convoluted communiqués . the only way to overcome their conservatism stimulate two struggling governments is genuine involvement by civil society . we even more than money in which , have entered an essential factor , after all . in today ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest .
for example , somaliland and ethiopia are collaborating on the construction of a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and income for people in one of the poorest and least developed parts of the world . international assistance benefit may we can and will do to help ourselves is much . . but famine and drought victims provide food and medicine needs the international community . we need will help provide jobs for our peoples and products and resources for the world , pro-@@ growth investments is necessary . that means and failed states subsidizing failure focusing on promoting and government market economies .
trento – the most significant result of the recent european parliament election is neither that conservatives and social democrats lost seats to liberals and greens , nor that far-right nationalists gained less than anticipated . it is that citizens voted in much larger numbers than anyone expected . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader . to us , growing challenges interests elsewhere in the world a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
we know that did to destroy every man every jewish , woman , and child , intend , hitler . even though mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual . however , to prevent such a thing from recurring is the laudable effort . has unfortunate consequences had . we distort history towards dubious ends often learn the ones of wrong . in our zeal to learn lessons from history . by the memories of world war ii , the killings at srebrenica were affected .
democratic principles the fact that be realized to the greatest possible extent both values is organizing society . call . particularistic action that undermine the liberty and equality of all citizens does n't . the path is narrow but . it 's politicians to deal with what it gives rise is the tensions . the duty , and this is a paradox intrinsic to democracy . yet it to preserve the formal , political meaning of citizenship as state intervention broadens to ensure the well being of all is also the duty of citizens . . this might greater equality the name restrict political freedom . .
these figures are they a boom usual signs , or reflect alarming imbalances . do ? if america ’s rate of growth in the coming decades remains what it has been over the past thirty years , the answer is simple , and terrifying . too high be would be prices stock market . households would be behaving in a totally irresponsible manner . would be unjustifiable , indeed , unsustainable , the exterior imbalance .
as he believes , the degeneration of the evidence of baverez is not as convincing . he has the most glaring evidence of france decline industrial draining away for example . but deindustrialization is common to all countries of advanced . indeed , france does actually better than most of its rich country rivals and , unlike germany , the uk , or the us , has retained the same global market share in the industrial sector that it had in the early 1970 's . moreover , comptetitiveness , foreign investment a better measure according , france does very well .
for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers are emerging and where all actors from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence on a daily basis , learned that a lesson of second is useful . that the world has enemies . has more friends . is that europe 's lesson . . attention deserve respect is these friends . if italy and the eu had not understood the need to work with non-european countries , and make them feel that they were responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , the efforts to establish the icc and be so close to declare a universal moratorium on the death penalty would have failed . it 's what i how i think of efficient multilateralism , mind have , but i know that this is not exactly a new lesson .
the problem is that tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china , who would be even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts are is empathy for american workers . . people with whom we empathize kinder , empathy makes us . that ’s good , but it also has a darker side . made the tragic murder of kate steinle use by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies is trump , in his campaign speeches , . he who although such cases have been reported , strangers have saved . is any similarly vivid portrayals of un@@ documented immigrants did not available . .
need a global macro-prudential regulator , not just the supervisors of a loosely organized college is markets and financial institutions with global reach . or it could be that national policymakers do n’t trust the imf , given that it essentially missed the global financial crisis . if it the confidence win needs , the fund . this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely using its bully pulpit to warn of risks created by large-country policies . as any latvian will tell you , you 're market discipline subject . is small countries .
there increased competition for money wages is no downward pressure . , i provided . , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . this governments banks or central friedrich ha@@ ye@@ k against any attempt is famous argument . except for a few markets niche , prices should fall in any economy of progressive . businessmen do n’t need low inflation to expand production . they of more sales need only the prospect . .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is about half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s and more than twice the size of india ’s . these divergences help to explain why a number of new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of the n-11 , including the mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and the mist ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i did n’t devise these groupings , but i have come to be associated with them , having produced a bbc radio documentary on the mint countries in 2014 . they that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp , i had raised . at any rate . eight years later , the mist economies still in the future , account for around 2-3 % of world gdp . have a chance . .
to combine existing technologies with a degree of deniability that remained just below the threshold of overt attack was in information warfare , russian innovation . the brilliance . watched the tactics of russian president barack obama for us intelligence agencies , and he warned putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but to take strong actions for fear that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls and jeopardize the expected victory of hillary clinton , or to call out russia publicly . , obama was in trouble . undercut any deterrent effect , but the weakness closed some facilities of diplomatic expelled russian spies . and because president donald trump has treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration also failed to take strong steps .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has shaken up the way a campaign is run , how a nominee communicates with voters , and the republican party ’s platform , with many of his positions deviating from gop tradition . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line – and that ’s not a good thing . of course , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered meaningless within a few hours . he disavowing statements soon after making them with head-spinning frequency .
this year alone , discord with russia sources have deepened multiplied . can transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad , near the polish border , and has a number of nuclear agreements withdrawn , russia . armed conflict may escalate at any moment , and are not respected the minsk ceasefire agreements . : moreover , the ukrainian crisis is far from resolved . it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in the internal politics of western democracies , using leaks of sensitive documents and financing right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , who would be supportive of the kremlin , and . then there is russia ’s role in syria .
so it seems we are friends again – or perhaps just resting before the dispute resumes . but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? seem to despise the eu so deeply , he does . , why ? protect its economic and geopolitical interests should try rather than closer cooperation to to undermine europe . , why ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s main national security issue .
the report – the product of several months of debate within the german foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’s current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and to an international order that is based on universal norms . ” as gauck proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continued adaptation ” of this order . to achieve this objective , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the ability to solve problems and resolve conflicts affecting all or part of the international community . the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic heft , and military might , coupled with the availability of resources and technological proficiency – remain important ; but they are often insufficient to confer actual influence in international politics . a shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that allow it to work well with others and to create and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ”
and he implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to assist poland in the diversification of its gas supplies . he the union of european , germany , or france did not complete a single negative word . . with his performance , trump managed to draw enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not just from the pis-curated crowds , thanks partly to his public greeting of the opposition leader lech wałęsa , who was booed by pis supporters and remains a constant target of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and an outspoken critic of the pis government , concluded : “ i believe that trump ’s speech was very well done . he made strong allusions to poland ’s history and was very flattering to us as poles . ”
given that all of this activity is taking place in the offshore renminbi market , which is small in scale and has only limited connections to mainland china ’s financial system – the result of china ’s hesitancy about financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility – the situation remains controllable . add to that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp of over $ 10 trillion , a growth rate at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis seems highly unlikely . this does not are no risks there , i mean . , but on the contrary , china has a strong interest in curbing the volatility – and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . markets and policymakers on the same page get will be the key .
you are supposed to listen , not think or argue : openly declare to their flock was almost many bishops of polish . . the heart is a matter . , faith . you do not drink , beat your wife and , of course , the church give money . , you 're fine if your good behavior . that is done purposefully , and receive very weak training in the priesthood even young men studying . in a church that boasts of saint thomas aquinas , such " know-nothingism " seems startling .
members of a specific profession no immunity from serious criminal charges for these types are not provided . as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails . freedom of expression and of the press are guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and statutes . the turkish government freedom of expression , particularly through its reform of the judiciary be the main ask has proved . for the last 13 years . furthermore , it should published in turkey , with a total daily circulation of nearly five million copies is magazines for more than 7,000 newspapers . , i be noted . . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over the government .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just this in the south china sea . become for a ruling party that can no longer point to a rapidly rising standard of living for of legitimacy the primary source could be nationalism . to to ensure that china does not act on such a temptation , push back . , our others and will need . but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to take its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and according to the rules set for all . but the bigger policy choices will be china ’s to make .
bubbles are social epidemics , interpersonal contagion sort fostered in my view . when the contagion rate what a bubble support goes for ideas ? , a bubble forms . but contagion rates depend on thinking , judge difficult which patterns . are rare events in big speculative bubbles ( little bubbles , in the price of , say , individual stocks , happen all the time , and do n’t qualify as an answer to the question . )
was both of left and right , simplistic ideologies rough in the century was found wanting , had its day in court , socialism . the great communist experiment is virtually over ( save for a few holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . the ideology of the right , as represented by the washington consensus of neo-liberal , market fundamentalism , was n’t much more successful , even if its failures often go unacknowledged . it is not inevitable while development is possible . has shown . is the last half-century .
campaigns can segment the electorate into strategic clusters using complex algorithms , and then deliver personalized online content to the most susceptible voters by wasting data sets of voter . most effective dissuading people from voting altogether , but at undecided voters has proved effective . , microtargeting . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s microtargeting operation in the 2016 us presidential election played a decisive role in the key states that he needed to win the electoral college . second there are now almost 15 million europeans other than eu countries residing with intra-eu migration having increased . it to difficulties registering in host countries , a paucity of polling stations , and overly complex absentee-voting procedures , the eu elections is very difficult . , as populists well know .
at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to build up claims against china – at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . even if chinese authorities managed to achieve full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would actually become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not easily established . indeed , over three centuries of globalization , only three “ currencies ” have dominated : gold , the british pound , and the us dollar . though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the dollar since world war ii , often providing better stores of value that are less prone to inflation , none has made lasting inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . it and foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination where the rule of law is well established . , largely have emerged . is also no accident of global financial shares . .
in considering which lessons of germany ’s turnaround should be applied to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what government can do and what remains the responsibility of business , workers , and society at large . the public finance is is the one area in which government clearly charge is . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that was close to 4 % of gdp – perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average at the time . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries are running deficits that are higher than germany ’s ten years ago . the turnaround in germany ’s public finances was due mostly to a reduction in expenditure .
and if we must test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data , we can test causality on laboratory experiments no longer . this involves typical of the lab , the closed question@@ -and-@@ answer process moving , and applying our ideas in society , earlier and more frequently than ever before . to see how things work in reality , we must construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try new ways of doing things ( to be blunt , to act as guinea pigs ) . an example of such a living lab is the “ open data city , ” which i launched with the city of trento in italy , along with telecom italia , telefónica , the research university fondazione bruno kessler , the institute for data driven design , and local companies . they understand that they are participating in a gigantic experiment whose goal is to create a better way of living , this lab has all involved informed consent the approval .
we 've already been at an military escal@@ ation uncontrolled interest for decades after all , iran and the . projects asked the best about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months for its commentators as in previous years . it will weigh on the present for many years to come happens in 2020 . is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . must use economic policies to achieve the aims of geopolitical because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service but the way europe ’s policy toolkit works in practice suggests that it is not well suited for exercising power abroad .
canberra – trade-offs are an inherent part of life . we all our budgets of private recognize this . we may have to accept a less extravagant summer vacation , fix the roof . we can splurge on dessert we cheaper wine pick , when . cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaves address other issues fewer resources : trade-offs also policy pervade environmental .
london – the british election called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 will transform the outlook for britain ’s politics and its relationship with europe , but not necessarily in the way that a vastly increased majority for may ’s conservative party might seem to imply . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s election announcement : “ crush the saboteurs . ” but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately lead to an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after he had destroyed all opposition in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still snatch victory from the jaws of defeat for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british election , may has effectively extended the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from 2019 until 2022 .
this sort of turmoil valves has democratic security of course . it is more than odd to argue that the rest of the world has to cope with a built-in advantage for china ’s exporters because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change . thought to a political loosening favor is the impressive premier of no wonder . politics be operating in that is , to be diplomatic , a manner . , sub-optimal seems from east to west . then again , maybe we ’re lucky that things are n’t worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union is mobility . to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another was the process of integration . according to this vision , the eu ’s inhabitants had the nation to lose and a continent to gain . but that they are more worried about losing the nation , some results of election indicate . ever since the 1986 single european act removed restrictions on working in other member countries , the continent has been a single labor market – at least in theory .
would be federalism for one option would provide a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb and help cage german power , common political institutions , accountable to the eurozone voters . but increasing animosity among eurozone member states , and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries , means greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . have a greater say in national representatives of elected would be a better option . with the no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and respond to voters ’ changing priorities .
bogota , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is as necessary as it is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g-20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas such as the fiscal-policy response and the role of the international monetary fund . it governments concerning what not to do put some pressure . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies . a step forward was clearly . in these respects , the g-20 . however , and london 's washington its initial meetings was increasingly successful in 2009 , as the g-20 has tried to reconcile divergent national economic interests and recovery strategies .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable , which comprises the chief executive officers of america ’s largest companies – with combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion – updated its long-standing statement regarding corporate purpose . it ’s not just about shareholders , the ceos say ; their firms must be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . in fact , shareholders came in last on the ceos ’ new list . and the statement ’s principal author , in his apparent exhilaration , is reported to have said that he felt like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . following most powerful leader of iran 's its targeted killing , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus that is suppressed by acute and chronic stress is elevated by many antidepressant treatments . that , even with treatment , the recurrence of major depression is very high - around 70-80 % , the problems with many of the medications of current is still one . this that may also lead to structural changes in the brain , the ones underlying depression . , and suggests that a new generation is not necessary . . if it would have to target what appear to be progressive neurodegenerative changes in the brain , which we infer are taking place because recurrence of depression is so high under currently available treatments , new , the new antidepressants . although its toxicity makes it less than ideal , we are seeking . is a mood stabilizer and neuroprotective agent , lithium .
tiger parenting aims at getting children to make the most of what abilities they have , and so seems to lean towards the “ clever ” side of the “ clever or happy ” choice . that ’s also the view of betty ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua are the reason why asian-americans like me are in therapy . ” stanley sue , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide , which is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he family pressure is a significant factor believes . . that the only way to do it is through hard work , and brings great satisfaction to reaching a high level of achievement . , chua would reply .
in some cases , they are individuals like president hugo chávez of venezuela ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy ’s ex-prime minister silvio berlusconi . mostly they enter the political scene from the fringes but manage to form a highly personalized grouping , like jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . could be added to the list is other names of many . tells us two things in the list one a surprising number of populist leaders have get themselves into power in recent years managed is . .
is regarded less and less as a lifelong union , and get married bothering is fewer and fewer people . . children are born more and more , families are having fewer fewer children . so one of the “ unintended consequences ” of the bill might be to add welcome recruits to the ranks of the married , even if these recruits are of a historically unusual kind . after much soul-searching , i i was striking a freedom blow , that , she voted for the bill . . there is a clear status benefit to the minority ; the majority being done is no obvious harm . ; and the long-term consequences are unfathomable .
the anecdote selected a master was ronald reagan . communication for leaders another crucial form is the right example setting . announced that he would forgo the raise himself the government officials of the salaries raised in 2007 . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some executives of business voluntarily as a means of communicating concern for their employees and public opinion , they reduced their requirements . . obama be a talented communicator proved during the 2008 presidential election campaign .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only at fighting common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also at treating a range of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , which now risk again becoming incurable . with the g-7 leaders having committed , in a recent joint declaration , to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for the more inclusive g-20 – and china , as it chairs the group for the first time – to take the fight to the next level . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality or their country ’s level of development . dying as a result of amr , up from around 700,000 today , with china and india one million sufferers each housing could be by 2050 . at that point , global gdp in an estimated $ 100 trillion will already been lost have .
sydney – the appointment of five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december is a reminder that the ascension of china ’s next generation of leaders , who will take power in 2012 , may be the most significant development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign begin in 1978 . hardship endured during the mao zedong years will the turmoil personal memory be the first . but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and set its leaders free ; the mistakes of the past repeat could forgetting that history . . all five appointees were born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . only 46 years old is sun zhengcai for hu chunhua , two of them .
finally , there is the scenario of chaos . a super@@ bug destroys the networks our life leading to economic , demographic , and environmental collapse has come to depend . on which for example . in this set of possible outcomes , one point stands out : the uncertainty of europe ’s role in the future global system . reach three issues of fundamental for clear decisions must to prevent inexorable decline . the eurozone crisis resolve how , eu leaders must determine .
but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , together with negative interest rates , caused financial institutions ’ equity prices to fall , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , increasing illiquidity , and crowded exits . past experience has taught china ’s real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluation . whether the loss of global currency stability through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which five major economies agreed to depreciate the us dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark will share other reserve-currency countries . is is the question . if not , why would asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue funding speculation against themselves ? savers in liquidity need still lack a lender of impartial of last resort , but the us dollar is a safe haven .
and a good deal of traffic – with new cars smuggled in through tunnels beneath the “ philadelphi route ” that runs along the egyptian border . but is also and limited traumatic is real life . we saw buildings – not just the former hamas headquarters – still in rubble . bullet holes is houses . up to eight hours for no electricity is there .
who fight the last war plans is the proverbial general is many central bankers . but inevitable damage , not merely worrisome risks makes monetary policies flawed . as a result may fail to confront the latest economic menace - global deflation , you continue to fight . despite conquered inflation having . for a decade have paralyzed japan 's economy . , falling prices . plummet prices recently , and hong kong china have seen .
it has only two means to block the implementation of the agreement between iran and the rest of the world , even if the us now absents itself from the jcpoa . would be to foment war is the first . this clearly the house of white as national security adviser is back especially with the neoconservative doyen john bolton on the us agenda . . the world must steadfastly ruinous us to resist another military acid . the second way the us could the jcpoa kill is extraterritorial sanctions .
it that china the aiib pressed ahead . , this impasse . was probably in response . . the size of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – is a fact that can not be wished away . it can not be applied today without flexibility and strategic common sense , but during cold war for america and its allies , a containment strategy worked well . . critics of america ’s policy point out that even if the us had thwarted the effort to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia , and around the rest of the world , one way or another . the influence through a newly created international organization is channeling . , they argue , is to temper raw power grabs is more likely . .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said a lot about foreign affairs , without really saying anything at all . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is not much reason to believe that , when his approach does become clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs . trump is no statesman , a businessman . he thinks in terms of immediate profits and losses – a worldview that is exemplified in his declarations that us allies need to contribute more to security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good .
business was for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies are the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spending more than twice as much as japanese businesses in 2009 . but business investment as a share of gdp has changed very little in the us over the last decade , while it has risen rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . the largest business-sector r & in the us and other countries d investors is multinational companies global . for example , multinational companies , whether headquartered in the us or elsewhere , accounted for about 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , about the same as a decade earlier . and us multinationals still locate about 84 % of their r & d activities in the us , often in innovation clusters around research universities .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at about 48 % , according to official statistics . this is remarkable progress given that was only 18 % before city dwellers share . it at a similar stage of development other countries is still unsatisfactory , due to the transfer , but . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now is around 70 % when measured by the percentage of the labor force whose income is derived mainly from non-farm activities . some other developing countries , and china another difference of striking is that chinese cities , large and small , lack any sign of significant urban poverty or slums .
was the only alternative to chaos and the fundamentalism of the rise , with or without regime change , implementing democracy . shiites and sunnis civil war the verge may be iraq . moving irresistibly towards possessing a nuclear capacity is under a president of new and more radical , iran . the unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons the nature almost combustible of relations between west and illustrated , and a free electoral process brought hamas to power in palestine . the way to new interpretations paving is all of these developments .
this made it easier for lula in particular to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , having as recently as march 2008 backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador which killed farc commander raul reyes . calderón ’s uncompromising hard line on drug dealers in mexico , an unrelenting offensive that follows the precedent set by uribe in dealing with the farc , has also been helped because economic growth has muted domestic opposition . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic influence because things have started to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula have no intention of letting chávez lead the way . lu@@ la visited the island with a string of leading brazilian businessmen and and investment deals with trade worth signed $ 1 billion last january .
before our eyes , several acts tragedy is the players and their aims are clear in which , i 'm unfolding . . what is not known is how many more acts this sad political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how – it will end . began by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement in the fall of 2013 is the first act . instead , he chose in exchange for a pile of cash and cheap oil and natural gas to with russia , enter a customs union . , have ukraine . . russian president vladimir putin seemed to have achieved his political aim , namely to bring ukraine , which had been drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence .
most countries do n't have a voice , although the number of participants the original 15 to 25 has increased . . behind the gge : can norms really limit state behavior lurking is a better question . , but ? most experts agree that a global cyberspace treaty currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals at the un ) . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and widely shared expectations of proper behavior among a group ( which create a common law ) . can vary to bilateral from global , to plurilateral , in the scope of these constraints
monetary policy has redistributive effects of course . think about debtors versus creditors for the interest rates of the effects of different . however , choosing than fiscal policy for winners and losers awkward , indirect and imprecise way is monetary policy . they can be used as scapegoats when necessary-a role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool at least , but independent central banks can occasionally be a pain for politicians . what will the stability pact in europe follow , guide the choice . should be these considerations .
china during the global financial crisis , credit crunch a liquidity shortage did not suffer . unlike the us . thus , demand fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target , the non-market interference of interest rates of low . if commercial banks had been allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would have grown more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . indeed , china ’s housing prices have been skyrocketing in recent months . helping revive real-estate demand , and , fear of the negative impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , has been too cautious in dealing with bubbles when they have reappeared overwhelmed was too generous . is the government .
now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as the guardian of the secular state and strengthen government control of the judiciary . erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also expanded into the educational system with the introduction of a markedly religious curriculum . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law has recently made the teaching of arabic obligatory in schools . it is difficult to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision . erdogan believes that , by exercising turkey ’s capacity for mediation , he will recover the burden of his ottoman forbears as the guarantors of peace and security in the mashreq .
he remained skeptical about notions of irreversible progress . emerge only not from sunday speeches from practical initiatives could be changed better . thus , by and the real policies , not by decree , european integration was created . so he and giscard created the european council ( composed of the heads of europe ’s governments ) , which is now a major player in the european union ’s institutional set-up . they the idea of monetary integration , which came to fruition a generation later pushed forward . .
we 've already been at an un@@ controlled escalation military an interest for decades after all , iran and the . projects about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months , they offer their best asked his commentators . as in previous years . if this year 's selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , the prospects than at any time since june 2016 , there are and much clearer . . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are sure to stabilize once the period for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship is extended again from the new , very soft , april 12 deadline until the end of the year or beyond .
it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ the united nations of europe ” has remained too ambivalent , if not deliberately ambiguous , to be effective . after the irish “ no , ” can the union find salvation in nato ’s idea of a “ coalition of the willing ” ? leave the pack without being the unwilling coalition paralyzed , can the most determined pro-integration europeans ? of course , the irish “ no ” is not the equivalent for the eu of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it a nature of institutional , political , and even psychological a major setback and challenge is also constitutes . .
what required is is a dose of realism . the islamic state of the struggle is not a conventional war . we can not as it is as much a network and an idea as it is an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources , destroy it soon . , or eradicate . continue to be one of this era scourges is , terrorism . the good news , though , can be dramatically reduced through sustained , concerted action posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world for the threat is . .
the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress , failing . but to for the benefit of small and medium sized firms who have been starved of capital by the experience of recurrent crisis and bad credit , start financial intermedi@@ ation . , a board of currency will help . to mexican capitalism become part , small and firms of medium need . not very hard to achieve given a booming america next door and great liquidity in global capital markets ; mexico 's economy has had a good years few now . mexico 's own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) contributed to good performance as did the determination to hang on to and even widen the reforms of mr. zedilla 's predecessor , president salinas .
it that accompanies and cushions the modernization of the process of painful , it requires a sense of social responsibility . . people need help , between a lost past and a future not yet gained , who are suspended . . is also a sign of which means readiness to face it by delaying immediate gratification -- awareness of the medium term -- , but such assistance will not yield immediate results . is not a war mr. qaeda 's fighting . it self-defense , partly an assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances , and partly the frustration causes is a constructive effort . is partly partly . .
loose associations of many of them , and groups outside syria is groups like the syrian national council . these for their failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be seen as a viable alternative to the current regime , the administration of obama and others are groups . . have limited influence over the local opposition groups inside syria , which are equally diverse and divided , but these groups . it is among these groups that radical islamists have gained a foothold . on the ground , they made the gains . stays in force . , but he is a second main argument against toppling assad .
this was not over-regulating and over-reaching a case , but on the contrary , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by capturing the hearts and minds of regulators , and of politicians on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow private-sector elite – mostly on wall street – almost all the upside of the housing boom . but who now have lost their houses , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or all of the above , the relatively uneducated and underpaid was broken . is the downside . they did n't the crisis cause , these people . they paying are , but .
the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has created large trade deficits , and is undermining the competitiveness of small and medium-size enterprises . unemployment with registered as jo@@ bless a record-high 3.3 million workers , about 11 % stands . at the same time , political crisis is impeding the government ’s pursuit of difficult reforms . french leaders have past experiences in current threats apply , or communicate effectively . demonstrated a failure . . instead , they the minor controversies of overblown rhetorical battles engaging are re@@ to diver@@ sionary tactics . .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . in 2012 – two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening up the economy – the official poverty rate had reached 22 % , less than half the rate in 1994 . it the aspirations raise is time for india . , but . escaping abject destitution , though an important milestone , is as achieving a decent standard of living and sense of economic security , not the same . there is still much to be done to that end .
there was much room diplomacy left once the march to war had begun . yet , far from making space for diplomacy , trump adviser sebastian gorka recently told the press that , “ the idea that secretary tillerson is going to discuss military matters is simply nonsensical . ” but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat have significant influence over military matters ? if this does not change soon , we may , as then-british prime minister david lloyd george wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle ] into war ” yet again . this rhetoric intensifying war being swept him . must prevent south korean political leaders .
alemán , too , faces a rebellion in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in the party ’s liberal wing . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushes him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances for winning the presidency increase sharply . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : is it preferable to align with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán or support a new democratic force and risk helping ortega win ? although a three-way race is pure speculation at this point , it ’s clear that it offers ortega the best of all electoral worlds . it ’s so tempting that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his political interests .
friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary - that the private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability ­and that strategic , powerful , but limited economic intervention by the government was necessary to maintain stability . but , while for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private investment stable , for friedman the key was to keep the money supply -- the amount of purchasing power in readily spendable form in the hands of businesses and households -- stable . you could say the means of technical difference , relatively minor . a difference of opinion that rested on different judgments about how the world works , which could ( and ultimately was ) resolved by empirical research , you might say . you would half right be and
but speculators are thinking ahead and shifting out of commodities today in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to bring next year ’s price decrease forward to today . has already functioning of the exchange rate , the channels fourth japan 's prospect toward enhanced monetary stimulus of us monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank . has been the dollar appreciation against the euro and the yen is the result . since 14 % is the first half of the year and the yen . , there is 8 % against the dollar . is the euro .
in israel 's past two years , focused little attention on large-scale violations of human rights in other countries , the un human rights council was repeated . was also aware . , i know . this pattern of action and inaction by the council has given greater credence to those who believe the un ’s highest human rights body is inherently anti-israel . i the mission for these reasons undertake , i decided . i judge how he was initially approached shared similar concerns . , and advocate , i am aware . . but he was able to work with the council ’s president to secure an agreement he felt confident would permit the mandate to be interpreted in such a way as to allow his team to address the actions taken by both parties to the conflict .
in the early cold war , the union of soviet and communism had soft power considerable . many people believed that was the wave of the future communism , and the resistance against fascism led many communists . . but soviet soft power was undercut by the exposure of stalin ’s crimes in 1956 , and by the repression in hungary in 1956 , czechoslovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . although in theory communism aimed to establish a system of class justice , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , broad censorship , and ubiquitous informants . a general loss of faith in the system was these brutal measures net effect .
coronado , california – most people do not think of charles darwin as a psychologist . his work revolutionized the field in fact . our understanding of psychological was philosophical speculation before darwin . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbes , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could only describe current mental events and behaviors ; they could not explain their causes . influenced the shape of our minds as strongly as it has the shape of our bodies is that evolution . , he provided the deep understanding . , darwin .
indeed , any project of research evaluating the impact is difficult . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , pointed out in a thoughtful editorial in the journal science : “ one may be able to recognize good science as it happens , but significant science can only be viewed in the rear-view mirror . ” they obtain them underestimate at the time for their findings significance . he made who had congratulated him on the award the point eloquently , when salvador luria , my university microbiology professor , received the prize of nobel in physiology or medicine . it the table of breakfast depicted an elderly group . .
and , when fully implemented ( in 2027 ) , it will increase taxes on a majority of americans in the middle ( the second , third , and fourth quintiles ) . the us tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the wealthiest men in the world , famously complained that it was wrong that he paid a lower tax rate than his secretary . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . it is now universally recognized that growing inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing almost gdp over the past quarter-century gains all .
and they provide services for whose customers , whether gig workers should be classified as independent contractors or as employees of the platform companies with which they have employment contracts . is a critical question now confronting policymakers . to resolve this question with a new law , california assembly bill 5 , which codifies the legal criteria for determining how to categorize workers has attempted . is a us state with more than two million independent contractors , california . applying the three-part “ abc test ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it considerably harder for businesses to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than employees . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , lawmakers exempted many types of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . cover the more than 400,000 workers who the food-delivery firm doordash the ride-sharing services uber and lyft drive for platform . , but ab@@ 5 .
making matters worse , the modi government has , for the first time ever , invoked section 7 of the rbi act , which allows it to issue directions directly to the central bank governor on matters of public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . the government is particularly unhappy with rbi measures to clean up india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a large volume of non-performing assets , and prevent risks from building up in other parts of the financial system . these measures are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients . of course , government ministers ca n’t come right out and say that .
disappointed expectations may be the toughest electoral opponent of all as any politician of democratic . just ask former nicolas french president sarkozy . easier that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did , face sky-high expectations . did n't . of course . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he set out a bold economic-reform agenda and promised to boost japan ’s global influence . but , after two decades of leaders who – with the exception of junichiro koizumi – promised little and achieved less , japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe would follow through on his pledges .
have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent is who one copy of the gene variant that does not allow the body to metabolize plavix carry at least . is those individuals . in 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and more than 50 % of those of asian ancestry , the genome variation is exceptionally common . override the lack of response may a test of point-of-care to assure the platelet function . can to bypass the problem be used instead of pla@@ vi@@ x . which , there are alternative drugs . is particularly striking patients with the c virus hepatitis given for one year .
after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while peace divides them . the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s borders . if chávez ’s venezuela has become a narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where drug cartels are tearing apart the country , and the us , the world ’s largest source of demand . would be affected , having become in recent years the main transit point for south american drugs headed to europe , west africa .
's aimed at the poorest of the poor , economic growth and targeted investments of the realization that reducing poverty requires at the heart of the budget be based on including foreign direct investment , the private sector is is rapid economic growth . of market reform and growth promotion , including measures aimed at deepening the financial sector , promoting exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment , the critical areas is therefore supported by the budget . the key , however , is that the budget does not rely simply on " trickle-down " economics to raise living standards . the poor , particularly for the rural poor investments is targeted for the pillar of second of poverty reduction .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism , could well play directly into russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . 's not the west exclusive to prioritize threats countries figure out who should be contained are trying . in the middle east . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . domestically , he ’s trapped between the promises he has made ( such as the “ mnuchin rule ” that taxes would n’t be cut for the rich ) , the actions of president donald trump ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but even on the international stage , where us treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a hard time . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it does not intend to fulfill the global leadership commitments that mnuchin ’s predecessors have overseen . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are just a forum for making unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks government experience – persuade other countries that adherence to common rules and norms , such as open trade , is in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreement reached in paris this month at the united nations climate change conference ? than the debate erupted , she announced on december 12 . , was the deal no sooner . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not commit firmly to limiting global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but been credible have would not be such a commitment . because the negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction , he was in fact . emerged in london . , what .
to the ghettos move , for their safety , muslim professionals . began . where the state had failed dismally , particularly education , social life began to move . is by saudi arabia and other arab countries , muslim charitable organizations often financed . . in school for the first time , muslim boys thousands were enrolled . unfortunately , they espousing a fundamentalist brand deeply intolerant of islam is religious seminaries . were educated . . with discrimination soon cutting across class lines , increasing numbers of indian muslims began to look for links with muslim communities elsewhere in the world .
today , private firms employ more of china 's working class than state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . safeguard proletarian sa@@ vers in the interests by actually paying back the loans of bank , with a fraction of the resources of the soes , private firms employ much of the proletariat , produce goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , because of their superior performance . a mystery is that workers are protesting , not in the liberal provinces of zhejiang and guangdong , but in the socialist bastions of the northeast , most pundits miss the fact . , why . . against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but against no jobs in socialist shenyang do n't be protest . , workers . the government can not because socialism has bankrupted its finance , pay unemployed workers their pensions . .
poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning a european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) once did . but the opposite national teams competitions is true . while we see inequality and exclusion in club-level football . the average winning margin among the top eight world cup national teams has steadily decreased , from more than two goals in the 1950 ’s , to about 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s , and only 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same is played at the final tournament , not only those among the top eight national teams for all games true . the decrease in winning margins is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – many of them new and rather inexperienced .
the most of all worlds the blue chip remain but gdp low growth is one in which interest rates . ambles along at around 2 % in fact . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked increase in long-term growth , as the administration forecasts , would be historically anomalous . in the omb document , the three-@@ month treasuries of the rate of real is stay below 1 % over the decade expected . furthermore , in that projection , the premium of term disappears almost entirely . at present , ten-year treasuries offer the three-@@ month treasuries of the yield of more than three times .
politics achieved by berlusconi the personalization , as well as that he abolished , institutional feature reflected but this antagon@@ ism . introduced in 1993 , the majoritarian electoral system was one of the last acts of his government . the new electoral system changes the politicians ’ incentives , and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments . if as is likely , berlusconi himself were to distance himself from politics in the coming electoral term , be accelerated . would be this outcome . under the new electoral rules , seats are allotted to parties in proportion to votes , but a special provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral agreements : the pre-electoral coalition that wins the most votes receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) .
and he has had some success – at the expense of economic growth . it 's far lower than prevailed the rates of double-digit before 2008 though the current rate of 7 % is comfortable . given the need for further economic restructuring – and in view of long-term demographic trends , which will reduce the labor supply – pre-2008 growth rates are unlikely to be restored . this is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading – not an unsustainable credit-led growth model – is the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to assessing wen ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off .
to increase green investment much deeper cooperation between the public and private sector is the climate demands challenge . we to cope with the increased impact of climate change and develop clear global standards for disclosing the climate risks that investment projects pose is built . , i ensure the infrastructure . need . be maintained productively as droughts grow more severe will be agricultural land . , and how much cope with flood risk increased ? exactly how their money could be affected by a changing climate , big investors and small should know . here , the investment european bank public investment institutions can assist with adaptation in many ways .
“ more than half of this battle is taking place on the battlefield of the media , [ for ] we are in a media battle in a race for the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . ” the speaker was not some public relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . terrorists have skillfully adapted to fighting wars in today ’s media age , but , for the most part , america and the governments of the other democracies have not . consider that the violent extremists have their own “ media relations committees ” aimed at manipulating elite opinion . they plan and design use of communications every means for headline-grabbing attacks to break the collective will of free people and intimidate .
punitive damages exemplary in order to discourage conduct inimical to society do not exist of course . but philippine courts have the use of such damage as controlling behavior , particularly of businessmen a tool resort refused . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civil claims for environmental tort and human rights abuses before american courts demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those who have acted negligently or with impunity . why sulpicio lines , the owner of the princess of the stars , has remained in commercial operations despite its many lapses , all of this says . the courts for it to maintain non-seaworthy vessels , it sufficiently costly . have not made . simply put .
what to impose sanctions on european firms taking part in the project , even though these companies are contractually obliged to see the work through allows the card . , legislation is considering the us congress . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , the us ambassador to germany has been acting more like an “ occupation officer ” than like a diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments furious . but , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty are adding momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – a result of the euro saddling southern eurozone countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash , which severely reduced their competitiveness within the euro system .
all citizens of non-member states have adopted a common visa policy . has their shared borders abolished controls . . . it no passport controls to contend with upon departure and arrival is to treat a flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey be enough . is handy . . . crosses one it to drive from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at each border is undoubtedly convenient . , and indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu territory without border controls .
all based in china or america are such companies . have become dependent . , europeans . yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values in the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data privacy regulations – than on developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . to identify areas for mutual accommodation , help europe . could defining such a strategy . a third area with potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . such cooperation terrorism , human trafficking , and migration is essential . .
will not reignite the spanish economy just while current austerity policies continuing , adding liquidity . so , too , in the us , what largely finance small and medium-size enterprises is the smaller banks . have been all but neglected . the federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up the mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to fail . but inhibited even if the banks were healthier would be lending . after all , small enterprises rely on collateral-based lending , and the value of real estate – the main form of collateral – is still down one-third from its pre-crisis level .
lesson following the war of arab-israel , the world learned . the netherlands to punish them for their support of israel embargoed oil sales to the us . is oil-exporting countries arab . but the oil while oil destined for other countries found its way to the us and the netherlands , shifted to other countries like japan was the netherlands destined for us . clear at a price of common markets fungible commodity is . it turned that american , dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same degree of shortfall and paid the same damaging high price when the dust settled .
the world has been horrified by graphic images of the latest crackdown by myanmar ’s military junta . bullets buddhist monks unleashed and clubs have worked but the monks have retreated , and an eerie normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city and former capital . that under cover of darkness , crackdown remains . . when the sun myanmar , fear rises sets .
the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises such as greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions for those who break the rules . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that those sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . but it was greece would face his economic trauma current , i envisaged . of course . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance after the oil shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , huge fiscal deficits , increasing debt , a declining currency , and inadequate infrastructure . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communications , information processing modern , and so forth . again , it would have been ludicrously expensive – or simply impossible – to have achieved similar capabilities in earlier periods of history . in the late roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat could have purchased a nomenclator – a slave tasked with memorizing names and faces , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a basic smartphone is better than having an entourage of a dozen , or even thousands , of nomenclator-like assistants . we should we have come how far , i 'm reflect . in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that continued growth will open up for all of humanity .
insofar as this is true , the united states wo n’t be replaced as the dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role . this may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s international order . the vital interests guiding chinese policy are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s unity ( which includes taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for a time of long . as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for that reason – will pursue its foreign-policy interests in a completely unsentimental manner .
pursued fiscal austerity make for the vagaries enough , but of the market is the government . big exchange rate adjustments a series set the global financial crisis east asia 's crisis followed . value increased sharply is whatever argentina 's peso was tied , the dollar . some say that it became significantly undervalued -- saw its currency depreciate , argentina 's neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , . not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially since many of the agricultural goods which constitute argentina 's natural comparative advantages face high hurdles in entering the markets of rich countries , but he fell . is prices and wages .
their reactions are transferred directly to in consumption contributing to a decline in employment and private investment to the economy of real when such a debt-fueled bubble bursts . it for this dynamic than that caused by balance-sheet distress in the financial sector , say , find circuit breakers is much better . . yet the chinese authorities have learned the lessons of either episode seem n't . . underscored they actually exacerbated them , by allowing , and even encouraging in the 2007 collapse , that new retail investors introduce into the market . , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin buying , only did they fail to mitigate the risks . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks .
that it has , but i doubt . seventy years ago , john keynes of maynard pointed out its fallacy . agents do not know what will happen next when shocks to the system occur . instead , they refrain from spending until the mists clear , sending the economy into a tailspin ; they do not readjust their spending in this uncertainty face . it that spreads , it 's to it adjustments in the shock throughout the system . .
imposed on the rest of society by huge externalities is the sector of financial . america ’s financial industry polluted the world with toxic mortgages , and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes should be imposed on it . besides , might help alleviate problems caused by excessive leverage and banks that are too big to fail , the financial sector of well-designed taxes . banks to focus greater attention on performing their key societal role of providing credit encourage might be speculative activity taxes . over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , especially in advanced industrial countries with aging populations , should be concerned about the sustainability of their policies .
but may well account in good measure for the change in market psychology together with recent oil increases price . attitudes toward risks change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’s remarks can precipitate such changes . so , while these things happen in ways that are hard to quantify , maybe analysts should pay attention to the words of ahmadinejad just as carefully as they do to those of bernanke in trying to understand the direction of the world ’s stock markets . it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics and focus on the public thinking , economists could not like . after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and economists less omniscient ) than they like to imagine .
new york – in their efforts to pass a bailout plan for america ’s financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . but is far more recent , economic armageddon . brought banks , corporations and governments to their knees is of a decade ago , asian financial crisis . . the bonfire was the summer of 1997 the thai baht the collapse sparked . spread with the ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil across east asia , contagion soon .
of course , plato ’s purpose in the dialogue is not to define piety : if socrates knows of a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by euthyphro , he does not reveal it . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance about piety , and that euthyphro thus can not really know that prosecuting his father is in fact the right thing to do . the knowledge that comes from this kind of self-examination all decision-making is essential . . is contemplating , one should know any action one moral character . and to know that , one must be as well aware of what one does not know as of what one does .
more than two billion lack adequate sanitation , clean water access is one billion people worldwide . furthermore , food scar@@ city means , water scarcity . after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with water in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population . china which affected millions of acres of farmland and caused power shortages , half-century experienced his best drought this year . tensions between farmers herders and has exacerbated . has displaced many people in northern africa .
brazil 's deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of & d r including the design of a tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil 's climate , pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects enabled the unusual research corporation . . placing the yields of crop on par with those of developed economies soared . , efficiency . the era of “ easy " gdp growth driven by a massive army of young workers is ending . face the resulting growth challenge head-on , by in established practices , and policies to boost sweeping changes must be emerging economies . the first step is , recognizing this imperative .
since the g-20 ’s meeting at cannes last november , for example , europe has increased its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps towards strengthening its banks and banking regulations , established rules for fiscal discipline , and implemented a range of labor - and product-market reforms . but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies an urgent need for far more decisive reforms . we will continue to support such efforts , because european stability and growth matter for us all , and we 're confident that europe will to meet these challenges act together . . second all their members are balanced growth , sustainable delivering policies . , we need a clear message from the g-20 that . . and that they will be accountable for meeting their commitments in full , that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs . , g-@@ 20 members must demonstrate : to be meaningful , the message must be backed up with action .
they must lest they end up as anything less than number one , which are naturally considered . , bureaucracies . work . whenever we prioritize , we not only say where we should do more ( which is good ) but also where we should not increase our efforts ( which is regarded as cynical ) . but the priorities of not talking does not make the need to prioritize go away . instead , less efficient and less clear are only choices . is wrong , the problems of most publicized dealing mainly .
the point is not to get lost in endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have a meaningful discussion of inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of establishing clear targets . the debate must be better informed if are selected for the targets of right . surveys people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , but still higher than the level they would consider ideal , i show . as it stands . this is true in most countries – including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world – though there are a few countries , such as norway , where people have a more realistic view . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s opinions of redistributive policies .
those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy . similarly , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank or company access to the us financial system would create the kind of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after the fall of communism . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin – whose primary claim to leadership is that he ended the penury of the first post-soviet years – to continue with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , should emphasize to the chinese their stake in eurasian stability , obama . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
against that background , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector soared . made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity folk immoderately wealthy became money . is london , lower manhattan , and a few other centers the city . much of our time persuading them to recycle a portion of their gains to their old schools was like me , university leaders . . for the last two years , things have been different . some have gone out of business altogether of course , and many financial firms have decreased their balance sheets .
has emboldened who would love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan is pro-russian politicians is the policy . intense has been is the base horse-trading . in a meeting of february , the us ambassador to kyrgyzstan that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if the kyrgyz shut down the american base , she asked her chinese counterpart . . russian were conver@@ sing were two diplomats . “ visibly flustered , ( the chinese ambassador ) temporarily lost his ability to speak russian and began spluttering in chinese to the silent aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” according to a confidential us diplomatic cable obtained by the web site wikileaks.org .
but , ultimately , prevent their resurgence address them is the way of best . is to make sure that economic opportunities are available to those who are determined to try . is not enough for no hope of individual improvement in social assistance it its economic model starts questioning . is time that france . . in a recent statement about the burning suburbs , chirac declared : “ we will have to draw all the lessons from this crisis , when the time comes and order has been restored , and with a lot of courage and lucidity . ” are more far-reaching than chirac is ever envisage likely imply reforms . but these lessons .
we believe they have grown up with tools and techniques that we lacked at their age , they putting knowledge and is faster than us . . we with driving our country to new levels of growth and development , which is why we have now appointed a cabinet minister of their age , i entrust them . and created the youth of a council of special . we learned only fuel the fires of rage for sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry from hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region have . we in our country , i allow this . will not can not . . we need to study , teach , and practice tolerance – and to instill it in our children , both through education and our own example .
we produce massive expansion of credit is extremely low interest rates . , i know . . this can not produce anything but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates in with the same borrowing , higher price growth than germany cost countries . it 's absurd to try , and is impossible for this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policy stem . how do you tighten fiscal policy to make up for more than 100 % of gdp in credit-induced spending power in only three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004-2007 – and in a democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , as ireland is ? be out of touch with reality is to ask politicians in a democracy with big surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or public investment by the enormous magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes .
but several member states would resist any overtly federalist agenda , and only the unanimous agreement carried can be constitutional changes . . in the past , no doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would together regularly press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . but their commitment to european integration less powerful seems , and germany are less united on a common european strategy , today . the french government if is any chance of a softer compromise in future , there is a confrontation with the british . as a result . the significance of fischer 's speech is that he is the first government minister in office to say so in public , even if he pretends to say it in a personal capacity , and this conspiracy of evasion may not work is the problem . .
of modern industrial policy that can help to push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter , a new brand . describe it , enthusiasts . that will only create more distortions and retard growth , a misguided effort call it , critics . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made , for example , by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is strong . governments can help to address those market failures , and work markets for new ideas and innovation . but that getting such policies right implies exacting requirements , rodri@@ k hausmann and show .
will always if they have to compete with a large number of young male immigrants , be worse . between the lowest incomes and education levels native population gender are not anti-immigrant sentiment only driver , more broadly , let alone populism . to be sure . but can add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt is evolutionary psychology , which stresses competition for females , . can be done to change gender imbalances in a particular place , there 's little . but , even if the problem can not be “ solved , ” understanding it might help to limit the damage , not least by enabling leaders to avoid policies that are either not useful or would exacerbate tensions .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relationships . the same of economic relationships is true . , judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china . i would be the first to it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess the behavior of national economies , i concede . while i published a book in 2014 on the codependent economic relationship between the us and china . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling , as the world ’s two largest economies sink into a dangerous quagmire . in its most basic terms , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of relationship dynamics – when two partners draw more from each other than from their own inner strength .
but how is this identity to be defined ? this start to use language that defines europe by distinction , indeed by contrast , to the us -- europe as the anti-america , many at which is the point . . throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided a raison d'être for european union ; in the era of globalization , it is the us . has a pedigree of long , of course , comparing the two sides of the atlantic and contrasting . these are ancient and tired themes , european culture and american commerce , european profundity and american materialism .
without raising national saving – highly unlikely under the current us budget trajectory – trade will simply be shifted away from china to america ’s other trading partners . american consumers will be hit with the functional equivalent of a tax hike with the diversion of trade likely to around the world , go to higher-cost platforms . . be charge against china , of the japan trade battles of the 1980s has called . , trump . as he was back then seems clueless about the argument of macro . , unfortunately , lighthizer . in both episodes , the us was on delusion in denial .
has strong majorities at all executive and legislative levels , giving it a rare opportunity to act is the government of ayrault 's prime minister and hollande . if it can renew the european model at home , it will be able to project that success much more widely , particularly in southern europe , in turn reinforcing confidence and belief in the eu , particularly among the young generation . solidarity and equity strengthen long-term economic strength in which , i conceiving a vision for europe . must lead the french center-left . finally , france retains a global role than germany more has yet acquired along with the united kingdom among european countries . not germany , france is a member , and it plays a crucial legitimizing role while the united nations security council is outdated in its structure .
deep reforms – focused on quality and performance , rather than on enrollment and diplomas – are needed to transform the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a young labor force requires . regional solidarity of arab will strengthen instrumental to meeting the first two , the third challenge . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the “ arabness ” of the arab world . despite huge differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes , a sense of identity , a common language , and much shared history , i demonstrated . but an act of the tunisia revolt led from north africa to popular revolts , how else can one explain ?
the job of more flexible is who ? supports reconciling and family obligations work that , who has a boss ? beginning to the us shift is male ca@@ regi@@ ving attitudes . believe in traditional roles of gender is millennial men only a third . america ’s biggest tech companies are beginning to compete for talent by offering paternity leave .
underutilized labor and capital are redeployed , and increases competitiveness of growth muted wage . how fast this happens partly depends on the private sector ’s flexibility and dynamism . it depends on the ability and willingness of government to pursue reforms and investments that boost long-term growth prospects , and to provide a bridging function for the deficiency in aggregate demand . , but . if public-sector deleveraging is not a complete growth policy – and it is n’t – why is there so much attention on fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment ? several possibilities – not mutually exclusive – come to mind .
by contrast , when the personal situations of many individual americans are examined through european eyes , that constitutes a key part of american optimism , the extreme individualism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . “ cities of tents are filling with the victims of the economic crisis , ” read one headline a month ago on the front page of a mass-circulation american newspaper . putting their lives without any social protection at risk , send tragic stories of middle-class americans . , journalists . will pay for your costly cancer treatment if you lose the health insurance policy that came with your job , who ? it assume that the absence of social protection makes you stronger , as some ultra-free marketers do is wrong . .
recently poland experienced a political debate typically unfinished and typical , warsaw . it focused on whether a " free " education should be made a constitutional right . a free , or as its postcommunist advocates prefer to call it , a " not paid for " education , means education in schools and universities owned by the state ( but not in private schools ) . and equal free access to education the guarantee may be maintained only by raising the issue to the level of a constitutional right , say the postcommunists . due to their dominance in parliament , the intransigence of the postcommunists on this point forced the other political parties participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution to kowtow to their position .
all levels to institute large-scale unconventional-water programs improve the capacity of water-related institutions . clarify the responsibilities of national water agencies must also be governments . be clarified , knowledge and experience shared , identified tested innovations should be best practices . the private sector also has a role to play in the shift toward unconventional water resources – a role that must extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities must be mobilized – for example , through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water resources . 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation is sustainable development goal .
as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal . may 19 deal so , what can of the , i be made . ? there are few benefits of real behind a ceasefire in tit-for-tat tariffs . of around $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year time frame , targeted reductions . are fix@@ ated . is us negotiators . given the extent of america ’s multilateral problem , this is largely a meaningless objective , especially in light of the massive and ill-timed tax cuts and federal expenditure increases that the us has enacted in the last six months .
by widening income disparities , as well as serious environmental damage , that has lifted millions out of poverty , the economic expansion unprecedented was accompanied . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class , and those who have yet to benefit from the region ’s rapid economic development – and whose health and well-being is being adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at lower , but still enviable , rates – and to improve its quality . asia needs strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional “ south-south ” demand . this shift diluted would not be economic relations with west .
berkeley – the central insight of macroeconomics is a fact that was known to john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large gap between supply and demand for pretty much all currently produced goods and services and types of labor if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets . and this fundamental fact is big trouble source . is not a serious problem , because it is balanced by excess demand for other currently produced commodities is for some subset of commodities currently produced , normal gap between supply demand . industries benefiting from surplus demand hire them as industries shed workers insufficient demand suffering . the economy rapidly rebalances itself and thus returns to full employment – and does so with a configuration of employment and production that is better adapted to current consumer preferences .
initially , might address accusations that war crimes were committed in chechnya welcomed the case of budanov as a sign of the country is russian liberals . acquitted budanov on the charge of murder , and however , the military prosecutor that he was temporarily insane when he killed the girl , she accepted colonel budanov 's argument . last month . . ( the rape charge , for some unclear reason , had already been dropped . ) from a family of snipers , talk of the young girl as che@@ chen sniper began , the prosecution . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed the prosecutor , who seemed ready to acquit the patriotic " hero " on all remaining charges .
once the team is in place , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – by necessity , not choice – been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . both financial markets and resource-allocation were observed during this protracted period of monetary expansion , i recognize . must be the plan . the good news is that the incoming administration can draw on measures that were formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which gained little traction because of the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics that characterized most of obama ’s eight years in office . imperatives such as infrastructure , job creation , and tax reform address such measures . but a vacuum does not exist . , the us .
washington , dc – just over a hundred years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked – and when the power of such firms should be constrained . in retrospect , the breakthrough legislation – not just for the us , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . the dodd-frank financial reform bill , which is about to pass the us senate , does something similar – and long overdue – for banking . big business was widely regarded as than small business , usually modern . and more efficient prior to 1890 . saw rewarded success and allowed for further productive investment is a stabilizing development . in the consolidation of smaller firms is most people .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down and wrote a letter ? i do n’t mean an email or a text message ; nor would i count a dictated message to a machine or a personal assistant . no , i mean an old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or “ dear hillary ” letter . the reason i ask is that 65,000 people actually did write such letters to barack obama every week when he was serving as president of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , the white house staffers of a team would to the president , who would then respond to them personally that evening , i pass . select ten letters . .
they might they pay for better public services and a more compassionate attitude to the poor taxes were prepared . , they tell the card . . but in the end they would do exactly what they had done in each of the previous four elections - vote for a party which proclaimed " every man for himself " . today the economic determinism of the theory of pseudo-marxist has been refuted once for all , and . john main a vicious monetary squeeze and an economic slump ran for re@@ election . in 1992 . he did n't a chance stand , economic determinists thought .
whereas an inspirational style is more likely to appear in periods of rapid and discontinuous social and political change , it 's in stable and predictable environments effective . is transactional leadership . the transformational objectives and inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india or nelson mandela in south africa can significantly influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . by contrast , foreign-policy formation of american is congress , the courts , and the constitution institutions very constrained . thus , we would expect less opportunity for transformational leadership . the president in foreign policy the powers of congress is ambiguous . , but even the constitution .
berlin – it ’s been 30 years since the food and agriculture organization of the united nations launched the tropical forestry action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the latest international effort to stop it – an initiative known as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely to be effective . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of these two agreements has been , ironically , the production of reams of expensive consultancy reports . redd + was created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the agreement governing its implementation is expected to be finalized during the un conference on climate change in paris . but they should instead abandon redd + and replace it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation if world leaders are serious about loss halting forest .
donald payne , a leading member of the us house foreign affairs committee , and ana gomes , a member of the european parliament from portugal and head of the eu ’s observation team in the 2005 elections , have sought to tie non-humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct on press freedom and other human rights . by temporarily withholding aid , some governments of other and britain answered to the post-@@ election . but rights and democracy human who knows , ethiopia becomes a mistake . cutting off aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for the nation ’s 80 million people . it could also eritrea and neighboring somalia sparking fresh war . destabilize a fragile region . .
it 's crucial to keep them healthy to people working keep . that how in efforts to address the challenges of population aging , the industry of health-care must play a significant role . is . must be viewed not simply as an inevitable stage of life , but as an opportunity for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive is old age . to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts toward conditions that are prevalent among older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vital to find ways to stem more effectively the deterioration of people ’s productivity and independence , by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision .
raise private capital for public goods blended finance is is the second big transition-financing opportunity . bring together public and private stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , a range of wide , to finance projects with deep environmental and social impacts is these initiatives . moreover , projects up and de-risk scale and optimize their funding helps , the blended approach . is a good example developed the programme of un in indonesia in cooperation . the initiative combines maximize environmental and social benefits is philanthropic public and private . .
this distress only when foreign investors began pulling out their money tied were initially . is emerging markets . then panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries ’ financial systems and corporate sectors , which had experienced credit booms and had borrowed short and in foreign currencies . large current-account deficits countries and/or have been the most fragile and with large short-term foreign currency liabilities , large fiscal deficits . . but even the better-performing ones – like brazil , russia , india , and china – are now at risk of a hard landing . a financial crisis severe is now emerging markets many .
and because nobody will dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative , there would probably be a referendum were . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu had seemed unlikely . but increasing the chance that brexit may not happen have opened a new game . is the interventions by the eu bercow . this 's but the eu is the uk . good news , would foil financial-market speculators who were betting on a withdrawal . did n't really what they were doing when they decided by a narrow majority to leave the eu , i know . nearly three years ago
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path of reform that has produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping his vision of economic development and modernization on the third plenary session of the eleventh central committee held in december 1978 , and mao zedong had died two years earlier , in 1976 . china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , an equally momentous makeover of global economy geo@@ politics portending in the four decades . china ’s reforms started in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state controls was relaxed . farmers were given market incentives through the du@@ al-@@ track pricing mechanism .
jerusalem – as a result of misguided american policy , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the united states ’ enemies have been strengthened , and iran – despite being branded as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” – has been catapulted into regional hegemony . short such time certainly not , iran could never have achieved this . transformed in the middle east into an open struggle for dominance has been reported . is therefore a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel . the result has been the emergence of some surprising , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and the american-backed , shia-dominated iraq are facing israel , saudi arabia , and most of the other sunni arab states , all of which feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance .
fascination with liberal freedom a moment of peculiar came in poland . . abandoned former norms , overnight and un@@ written rules , and old social structures were destroyed . in the postcommunist social revolution ( less often noticed than the political and economic upheavals ) families and communities were undermined and ( at least in poland ) the church was too involved in politics to help . the gales of changes alone withstand were gone . , people . dependence habits are ingrained when , to be free but alone is not easy .
the crisis must also not become an excuse to create new institutional formats that jeopardize the delicate balance between the different eu institutions , a balance that – through appropriate adjustments – has been proven by the test of time . of course , the crisis does highlight the need to strengthen the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . we need we need the treaty of lisbon complete ratification final in order to have the institutionally and internationally stronger european union . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse to call into question the need to continue and complete the process of eu enlargement . extending the eu ’s area of freedom and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity , especially throughout south-eastern europe , is in the interest of every european citizen .
a commonly cited example of the outgoing government ’s alleged economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policy . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by major upa supporters , supposedly drove the government to fix extravagant prices and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to over-production . instead of eliminating this system , as expected , modi ’s government has augmented subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , raised import duties on sugar to discourage foreign competition , and increased the percentage of sugar-based ethanol that must be blended with petrol . his motivation is not difficult to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help it to wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s main sugar-producing state , from the upa in the upcoming state assembly election . this goal another policy reversal explains as well .
berlin – the german social democrats ’ ( spd ) existential crisis can no longer be treated as a typical party crisis . the party captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in regional elections in bavaria this month , and it is trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . polls indicate that albeit not as dramatically as in bavaria , the spd will lose more support . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but germany in which a dominant role in a multiparty system is moving from a two-@@ party system . with the spd declining .
while russia itself will not freeze accounts , president putin 's meaning was clear : it would be better for all sides if this money were brought home and invested in the national economy . russia must create a investment climate attractive secure and to achieve this end . most importantly , if we reverse capital flight are , the government must persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand . to mobilize domestic investment as long as ordinary russians keep their savings -- $ 50 billion , according to most estimates -- at home , how can the government expect ? that , for example , nobody will suggest nationalization , as happened repeatedly during the eight months that i was prime minister , the people of russia need for the country 's political stability .
events across europe during fall of 1989 stream would never be possible without gorbachev and his singular courage . for with gorbachev 's ascendance , more and more people in east germany stopped the regime of repressive afraid took heart . they realized that the realities of east germany were not fixed in stone after all ; that it was possible to achieve change , which many brave dissidents and proponents of civil rights trapped behind the wall had demanded for so long a time . one of the best chapters in german history is for me . , their commitment against the injustice of the communist regime . that autumn and the seeking of refuge by east german citizens in the german embassies of prague and warsaw already had shaken communist and stasi rule to its their foundations , hungary 's borders opening .
as a result , some – though , relatively speaking , not many – undertake long and often perilous journeys to developed countries . and yet , when they arrive at the rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome they receive is increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic over supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes the space for humane , pragmatic responses . responsibility-sharing – the foundation of the modern international system for protecting refugees – is replaced by responsibility-shifting , usually onto countries that are least able to cope . it is global efforts to protect refugees time to reboot . reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , the aid community , businesses , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , and the arts is a comprehensive strategy with global reach . is what is needed .
munich – the euro crisis has passed through six phases so far . it because they how trying to put out fires without keeping an eye on where their chosen path was leading them stumbled along . show , they is worth . . this is only the beginning of a seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe will become mired in debt , but remain calm . so far follows has been is the sequence : one of enhanced moral hazard , stemming from a run-up in debt is the crisis the phase of seventh .
between 1985 and 2005 , boomsters made 10-year forecasts that exaggerated the chances of big positive changes in both financial markets ( e.g. , a dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( e.g. , tranquility in the middle east and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . they assigned to rosy scenarios that materialized only 15 % of the time to 65 % probabilities . in the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating the chances of negative changes in all the same places where boomsters accentuated the positive , plus several more ( i still await the impending disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . they assigned of the time , that was only 12 % . , bleak scenarios to 70 % probabilities . second pay penalties for being wrong as the warned of skeptics .
would be overwhelming for the brexit of the challenges of economic the out campaign ’s main economic argument – that britain ’s huge trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from a breakdown in trade relations – is flatly wrong . would to negotiate access to its service industries the european single market , whereas eu manufacturers would automatically enjoy virtually unlimited rights to sell whatever they wanted in britain under global world trade organization rules , need , britain margaret thatcher was the first to realize that britain ’s specialization in services – not only finance , but also law , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research and so on – makes membership in the eu single market critical . it france , germany makes little economic difference . , or italy whether britain is an eu member or simply in the wto .
elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion is covered like the separation of powers and judicial independence . , require a debate . will answering them . the context of historical of the current crisis is essential for that . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system ’s secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the power of the military and the bureaucracy to control the elected government . in fact , the turkish military , with the judiciary ’s support , explicitly intervened in the civilian government ’s functioning in 1960 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of protecting secularism . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , encouraged their followers to take positions in the bureaucracy and the military .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union cracked . europeans have been the eu of a different kind living since then . that europeans have known since the end of world war ii , germany was . , what changed the night . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) and the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . was the country of most populous and economically most powerful in europe 's role at a deeper level , however , what was at stake
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because the history of arab-led military interventions – unlike those carried out by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – does not contain any promising precedent . at empowering a proxy political force over its military and political rivals , instead of averting humanitarian disaster or institutionalizing a non-violent conflict-resolution mechanism following a war were usually aimed . is such interventions . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . by late 1965 , abdel nasser egyptian president ga@@ mel had the royalist forces of a republican coup sent 7@@ 000 troops in ye@@ men . despite using prohibited chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 – a first in an intra-arab conflict – egypt failed to achieve its objectives .
oecd countries only after this initial package was unveiled , she opened to developing countries . led the process of reform . today , 125 countries are involved , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework . ” some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies used by multinationals tackling was undoubtedly undoubtedly an important step . , beps . it initiated , for example , the sharing among tax authorities of country-by-country reports on these companies ’ profits and tax payments . the reports will not depriving civil society of an essential tool of transparency be publicly available . , but however , only to very large multinationals will apply this norm . .
and enough to finance a rate cut to 28 % , you broaden the tax base . would n't accelerated depreciation eliminating . likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest for corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would broaden the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt financing , it would increase the tax burden on major investments in physical capital , which are often debt-financed . reducing the tax preferences for non-corporate business entities ( such as partnerships ) that pass their income through to their owners ’ individual returns would also broaden the tax base subject to the corporate-income tax . pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net business income ( by far the highest share in the developed countries ) . enjoy the same legal benefits as corporations are very large and profitable is these entities several .
presents gaza settlements of the evacuation to 37 years of occupation is israel 's plan disengagement . but israel will continue to be governed by existing arrangements covering most aspects of security and civil administration , and gaza wo n't have any possibility . insists . at the same time . this enter gaza at will and border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters maintain control . will continue the israeli military . means . . withdrawn along the palestinian-egyptian border from the strip of land will be israeli military . , nor that would receive the support of all factions , including hamas , a plan of security shall apply to these conditions .
agricultural employment total employment 53 % peaked almost 60 years later . it less than 3 % is , today . in fact , since as recently as 1980 , most countries have experienced large declines in agricultural employment . agricultural employment the share of malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , decreased by 20 % in some like portugal . 10 % exceeded in others as greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , philippines , and sri lanka .
hope that the vote will usher in a period of stability and calm by lending popular legitimacy to the government as its parliamentary election on february 18 pakistan gears , islamabad . is best participate refusing served but sometimes democracy . the upcoming election , to be held under the illegal provisional constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , is such a case , which is why my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote . provide my party with a great opportunity to take to the people for issues would to be sure , contesting the election . in fact , my party ’s support has been growing , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular in the frontier province – and gaining ground in every other province .
and it is a good thing that the official sector is paying more attention to joblessness – a very good thing . yet , unfortunately , this shift will not that eats away at the social fabric of any society , i solve a problem . . as much as bernanke and others wish otherwise – and as much as bickering politicians seek to dump policy responsibilities on others – central banks do not have the proper tools to deal with the component of the unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , training , and physical capital . likewise , they medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own address can not repair broken home financing , fix debt overhangs . . . buy time for other policymaking entities to get their act together , albeit at an increasing cost , is is the best that central banks can do .
in fact , china ’s dam builders are targeting most of the international rivers that flow out of chinese territory . most of china ’s internationally shared water resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is building of chinese dam the hub of new . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . furthermore , cut a major hydroelectric project in tibet as part of the flow of a tributary of the brahmaputra river , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india , china recently .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was crucial in preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it was . it was the global financial system tottering that was back then . it 's is in jeopardy that , global trade system , today . multi@@ lat@@ er@@ glass the world well has served . over the past 70 years . the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii much to its credit .
multiplying as attendance surged , schools were observed . that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had , parents believed . , and improving other public services . this was certainly true of who sacrificed a lot to raise their nine children , my parents . they were not happy when , in the 1970s , their older sons became communists , strongly opposing the brutal regime of hafez al-assad , president bashar al-assad ’s father . but this was not a farfetched transformation in a city where people were assuming new identities – such as nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist – downplaying their regional and tribal origins .
this an increased need for foreign health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions high turnover owing to overwork results . to focus on increasing access and subsidies for quality health care have been right . is gcc policymakers . but the native migrant populations of health-care services the distribution of fair is often a thorny policy issue . that it is properly educated and trained for the challenges that await the region , another attention to the workforce of health-care must also and thinking to improve and effectiveness of efficiency , gcc national health systems training programs wo n't focus on innovation systems .
if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france which collapses . ” when de gaulle , in military uniform , to demonstrate his mastery of the new medium went on television . , the moment of decisive came . “ well , my dear and old country , here we are again facing a heavy test , ” he said . he to reject even passive association with the insurrection called on the army . and it to re-establish public order , i instructed . , insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead . if the state bowed before the challenge it faced , “ france would be no more than a poor , broken toy floating on an ocean of uncertainty , ” he warned .
just when the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad was merely an instrument of the supreme leader , ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad appointed a vice-president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later retracted the appointment ) . is that is divided by the regime , what we do know with certainty . to in society emerge , these divisions will allow new forces . to reach all levels in iranian society , so all means should be found . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities , where they would discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about the future − which might well cause them to reflect on why young iranians do not share that optimism .
how can you evaluate a contribution of light infantry against the provision of critical enablers such as helicopters or air-to-air refueling tankers ? make your calculations , you do . , over what time period ? more equitable burden-sharing be used . is one instrument . is common funding with all members paying a share according to their gdp . traditionally , nato applied a policy of “ costs lie where they fall ” : each member picked up all the costs for the operational contribution that it made to an alliance operation . during the past couple of years , nato ’s funding policy has been updated to allow common funding to be used as an incentive for the provision of certain theater-level enabling capabilities , like medical facilities , airports handling troops and supplies , or intelligence .
moreover , one could argue that seen in recent years for has contributed to the disinflationary forces unexpectedly strong , easy money itself . owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen as “ zombie ” companies have proliferated . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been restrained by the debt headwinds – yet another result of easy monetary conditions . in view of these conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing advised seems particularly ill . should consider underlying their policies for the fundamental assumptions with on the horizon , potential danger so many .
so the worst the us be cooperation appears among a bad set of options . because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point , get the al-sauds . may not be found in the us cooperation . ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year , the regime — once central to american strategic interests in the region , has been made to feel dispensable by the us , which drops strong hints that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even to saudi oil . although the saudis were not included in president bush ’s “ axis of evil , ” some american policymakers now view the country as a “ kernel of evil . ” al-qaeda ’s terrorist network is seen as arising directly from fundamentalist wahhabi teachings , which constitute an integral part of the saudi regime .
the issue most controversial facing psychiatry and psychology today is how victims remember trauma . that combat , rape , and other terrifying experiences are seemingly engraved on the mind , never to be forgotten , clinical trauma many believe . the mind can protect itself by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it difficult for victims to remember their most horrific experiences until it is safe to do so many years later arguing , disagree . , others . while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these certain clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of victims unable to recall their trauma , precisely because it was so overwhelmingly terrifying . however , these clinical trauma theorists do not argue that “ repressed ” or “ dissociated ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign .
in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game my friends were playing , we would let the new kid in , but only after whispering into each other 's ears the words , elé belé . an elé belé is a player who thinks he is participating but , in truth , is merely going through the motions . knew that was n't a real goal for scored by a goal , everybody . as a child , mastering the cruel art of elé belé was important . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by a doting mother , we could convey to one another with a mere glance that the kid would be an elé belé .
the financial times stock exchange all-world index rose by nearly 22 % in 2017 – its best performance since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 . as the growth pessimism of recent years fades , some of the warnings that have been made in recent years become outdated seem . northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , argued that the us economy was bound to slow down , because today ’s technological innovations would not boost growth to the extent they had in the past . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers got a lot of attention for his argument that the world risked sliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” because the interest rate needed to bring desired investment in line with desired savings was below zero . yet , while the zero lower bound no longer seems to be a binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one of which relates to debt levels .
china has been is already threatened by global warming is whose fragile ecosystem . , she made the most international rivers . in fact . basin falls mostly in india and pakistan , and no works of hydro-engineering have been so far on which however , damming the salween in the upstream region of quake-prone are considering . , local authorities in yunnan province . india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirect the natural flow of any river or diminish cross-border water flows . but even a joint expert-level mechanism – set up in 2007 merely for “ interaction and cooperation ” on hydrological data – has proven of little value .
perhaps , but most students of monetary policy view quantitative easing as the textbook policy for pulling an economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” thereby preventing the onset of a sustained deflation , which would exacerbate debt burdens . as for china ’s renminbi , it is still supported by a highly political exchange-rate regime . eventually , china ’s rapid growth will have to be reflected in a significant rise in its currency , its domestic price level , or in both . but , in 2011 , the equilibration most will likely through inflation , i take place . . finally , in floating exchange rates around the world sharp and unpredictable swings is the best bet . , currency chaos .
without such cooperation , china ’s ambitions would be constrained only by domestic factors , such as a faltering economy , rising social discontent , a worsening environmental crisis , or vicious politics . which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? with the us distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers – in particular , an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan – are the best candidates for the job . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own international relations the values that america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect the territorial and maritime status quo , and preserve freedom of navigation . moreover , they the existing asian order for the desire of shared have been demonstrated . .
the convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to effectively tackle climate change fulfill their obligations . should also be developed countries . in addition , and institutional arrangements for appropriate mechanisms should financial support and technology transfer adaptation be established . . will take nationally appropriate mitigation actions and with measurable , reportable , and verifiable support in terms of financing , technology , and capacity-building , in the context of sustainable development . is developing countries . climate change challenge is undoubtedly exacerbated by the global financial crisis . however , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to addressing it is a challenge of and more far-reaching .
florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of the international financial order without leadership or direction . kim will join a private equity firm , where he believes he can “ make the largest impact on major global issues like climate change . ” following iran 's second leader most powerful the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , shift , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
or because they are rolled over every time they mature , because they are perpetual bonds . , the version of helicopter-money would not be repaid . that is arguably what doing is now is the bank of japan . . that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option , haruhiko ku@@ ro@@ da boj governor said . nonetheless , he has initiated a policy of replacing the government bonds on the boj ’s balance sheet once they mature , while constantly increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . this comes after years of declarations by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money offers a way to overcome deflation ( with which japan has struggled for decades ) .
he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger at gop elites of 2015 , the summer starting . . helping him grab and hold leads in polls and most primaries by as much as $ 2 billion worth of free coverage is media outlets . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . in fact , his voters ’ average annual income , about $ 72,000 , is well above the us median of $ 56,000 . resemble the tea partiers : male , middle class , and white overwhelmingly older is his supporters .
once away from them attention shifts , disgusting . , a group of people is considered as moral individuals . they soulless bodies become , and to exclude them closes in the moral circle . in a story told about descartes after he died , the soulless bodies of our reaction is shown . it when she was five years old , descartes died . was known . . the story according , descartes he created an automaton , a mechanical doll , built to appear identical to his dead daughter struck with sorrow . was so much . .
but to generate a nervous reaction in restricting democratic rights are unlikely . is the istanbul of the terrorist attacks . it miscalculated if al-qaeda was behind the attacks . prime minister recep tayyip erdogan 's reaction summed up the turkish sentiment : " these bombs aim to destroy the peace and stability in our country . we will not change our course . if these bombings are meant to send a message , i will sweep it off and crush it under my feet . "
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi , who is not in a position to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . without he from the majority of iranians has gained . , the trust . , mousavi must continue his legal campaign . he must stand by his two principal demands : nullification of the election and establishment of an impartial committee to rule on the government ’s violations of the electoral law . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power will be shaken . he will continue to represent the hopes of the majority of iranians who differ dramatically with their government , but could not gain the presidency if khamenei holds fast .
there is also something even more important than one ’s reputation . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone else to help people , and that should have been yanukovych ’s highest priority . but personal enrichment for his quest was his own interests thinking primarily . he had stopped to ask himself what would make him happier , i imagine . . imagine that , with this question in mind , he had compared the alternative of a lavish lifestyle ( with a private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably on the substantial salary to which he was entitled while knowing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best to improve the lives of ukraine ’s citizens .
been about its intentions for forthcoming far less is north north korea . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained manner , or whether dprk officials and diplomats are merely putting a good face forward to divert international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear weapons-monger and human-rights violator . indeed , the visit to incheon comes within a context of mixed messages . two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , which is officially part of the korean workers party , denounced the “ south korean puppet forces for seriously violating the north-south joint declarations and pushing north-south ties into the worst catastrophe . ” on the day of the incheon visit , north korea ’s state news agency continued the bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this is an ulterior design of the us to [ prod more ] zealously the south korean puppet forces into escalating the confrontation with the dprk in a bid to strain the situation to an extreme pitch and ignite [ a ] second korean war . ”
it because it is true on one level but not on the level at which it is being applied is often . , is both intuitively true and actually false , when an idea . . they should specialize , too , and yes , people do specialize . of us becoming good at different things and exchanging our knowhow with others , everyone benefits . it is not efficient for a dentist and a lawyer , for example , to be the same person . but specialization at the level of individual actually at a higher level leads to diversification . .
gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , and mosquitoes , especially females , can surf air currents at relatively high altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where winds can blow them hundreds of miles . this means that consent would have to be secured significantly beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for a limited time only , get unlimited access toon point , the big picture , and the ps archive , plus our annual magazine , for just $ 75 . subscribeyet , in the village of nasso , near bana , authorities told us that , despite meeting with target malaria , they still had questions and concerns about the potential adverse effects of the mosquito release . civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have also not been adequately consulted about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people had not been involved in a genuinely participatory debate on the target malaria project , let alone extended their informed consent . on the contrary , several people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitoes to be halted until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent is reflected in its own rhetoric , which eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly uses terms like “ engagement ” and “ community acceptance . ” this choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders have already decided to proceed with the release.reinforcing this conclusion , after the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between the requirement of free , prior , and informed consent in the context of medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) and in a public-health context .
work looking , and simply become discouraged and dropped out of the labor force entirely : not at school , not at work . is many . they do n’t protest much , but many end up in prison . the world ’s labor markets are now interconnected . are in young chinese effect competing and indians for jobs is countries as diverse as egypt and the us young people . china ’s low-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) has set the standard for competitiveness globally .
article 7 of the treaty of lisbon provides for the suspension of a rogue eu member state ’s voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires a unanimous vote by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never be used . in fact , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that it serves rule-breakers ’ interests , by all but guaranteeing that they will not be punished . orbán has been scamming the eu for years and encouraging other populists to pursue their own authoritarian goals – and with eu funds to boot . but the domestic matter in hungary or poland is not the law rule the weakening .
of mass destruction , saddam had guns . , and that there was incontrovertible evidence of a link with al queda . , stands again , says in iraq . there was overwhelming evidence that bush was lying even before the invasion . iraq did not as blix pointed to chief un inspector hans , have nuclear weapons . , detection technology . it they were beyond his comprehension , but those reports . is bush read possible . . it what he read did n't believe . is also possible . .
of hostility toward non-sunnis and a rejection of modernity , a nihilistic rage born driven is all of these groups . unfortunately , because battle-hardened fighters with the operational training to stage savage attacks are now returning home , there was isis in syria iraq , and the defeat in asia . how an obscure local group to carry out sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosives was enough . , such returnees in s@@ ri lan@@ ka the presence says . from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan , they 're present in many asian countries other . , returnees . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth in the us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt the security of asia , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in the land of blood and honey , ” is about the ethnic tensions that produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . the film has already won two awards and is an emerging box-office success , attesting to the enduring interest – and perhaps mystery – that the balkans hold for international audiences who were as horrified as they were confused by the events of the 1990 ’s . the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds for who lived and during that turbulent decade , the region worked . of us . as jolie ’s film so ably shows , neither the international community nor local leaders made a concerted effort to prevent bloodshed . one exception – perhaps the only exception – was kiro gligorov , the president of macedonia , who died in his sleep on new year ’s day , at the age of 94 .
there is evidence of falling foreign investment and this is contributing to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . moreover , accentuating the challenges associated with weak productivity growth is this trend . signs more planning , and that companies with uk-based operations have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans after a prolonged period of waiting are , there . firms will start to relocate jobs in addition to shifting investments out of the uk . if the prime minister theresa british may manages to get her proposed exit deal through parliament , i accelerate even . , and this process will likely .
that processes should be flexible and enable citizen participation is the key . ; he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and effective , but also supports national and european-level decision-making where this is appropriate . he will make influential europe , thereby empowering its citizens in shared sovereignty recognizes . . and he be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions must be understands . , but as a good thing views globalization . . . in support of the socialist party for outside left-wing voters , hamon , the opinion is currently spinning . but if mac@@ ron will pose a greater threat to le pen than an outright left-wing candidate would , he the second round qualifies .
a realist 's response to the challenges and globalization is the european project . it was initiated to create " solidarités de fait , " promote political stability , and consolidate democracy and europe 's social model . having achieved these goals , europe now world developments make a positive contribution . wants . this is not the last glory nostalgia . we must build on that huge potential to create a logic of solidarity in the world ; an unprecedented degree of solidarity now spain in the collective mourning and outpouring of sympathy was apparent . exists across europe . .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did no one see it coming ? ” krugman ’s cheerful response is that the new keynesians were looking the other way . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data collection . ” they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual issue ” – that is , it did n’t demand that they reconsider their theory .
the same can not be said for kaczyński.another major difference is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond concerns about physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this difference is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions such as freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should n’t be too surprising . after all , eastern europe liberalism is a western import . notwithstanding the trump and brexit phenomena , the us and the uk have the political liberalism and deeply embedded cultures . in eastern europe , civil society is not just weaker ; it is also more focused on areas such as charity , religion , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s post-communist states , the left is either very weak or completely absent from the political mainstream .
but that is a big “ if . ” we appear to have even though we foresaw a decline in potential growth to 1.5 % , he been too optimistic . as for the eurozone . nowadays , most forecasters put the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . if that projection will probably turn out to be correct , a growth model more domestic-demand-driven could not be changed to germany . . yet while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s services sector remains strong .
however , would depend on the eu 's financial policies at the time of admission , the outcome of accession negotiations , and economic developments in turkey , these transfers size . in any case , the eu 's practice of " capping " its budget would prevent an explosion in the financial costs entailed by turkey 's accession . undue concern cause should not be immigration . before 2025 , turkey would probably be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long transition period , possibly not of workers . , and human mobility is limited . around 2.7 million immigrants figure predict by this point , and declining bir@@ thr@@ ate experts .
the spe@@ ls treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- as on in every generation , a crime remains . perpetrators more than most people realize . anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew in which a jewish crowd cheers for christ 's execution and voluntarily accepts permanent guilt : " his blood be on us and on our children . " matthew then attributes to the jews a recurrent lie explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus 's body : " his disciples came at night and stole him away while we slept . " the later evangelist john concludes that because jews deny the christian messiah they must be " sons of the devil . " the west instinct treat jews as the masters of extraordinary forces -- kill deities and control world finance including the power . is just as whites attribute extraordinary sexual powers to black men .
but reform had never happened with politics too much , too much . so the idea that “ this country is different , ” that the rules of global finance did not apply , proved utter nonsense . thailand the others who turn in desperation to the imf looked like everything . by the time crisis came . thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against the bhat , the opening salvo in the crisis . encouraged by the illusion of a strong reserve position , the thai central bank took on the speculators -- and lost .
it made concessions on both these counts has now . thank the effort of the protest movements . was not better . . how can secured given under du@@ re@@ ss , these concessions but ? they can raise public conscience , but they can not formally commit governments , this what are n't equipped with non-governmental organizations and protest movements is a task . . only other governments can do that . the effort has arrived to nail down the concessions that the protests have extracted , the hour of governments .
the russia of informed elites cohort is growing compounding the challenge . as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . the majority of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight . but the majority will suffer economically to dedicate more resources to silencing the informed is forced . .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china wo n’t weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency for strategic ends is their ability to do so if they so desired . china ’s monetary policy has come to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a range of chinese goods . many are wondering if china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if this should call its bluff , the world .
it would also native-born workers skills often complement , helping them that in addition to contributing to the size and productivity of the workforce . i have emphasized the role of growth , so economics is my professional focus . behind the rise of populist nationalism , but this is not the only factor . matters , perhaps even more so is also are changing developed countries , the fact . . in the us , for example , the population of the share of foreign-born has around 14 % today from 5 % in 1960 .
that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change in leadership – and , more importantly , a transition to post-oslo politics . the plo ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the liberation organization from exile and returned home with the oslo accords – dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . most likely fill the vacuum will and occupation were born . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the student movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s and one of the main organizers of the first intifada , resulting in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . he was that he led the second intifada , which had begun two years earlier , and ordered some of its military attacks , and the charges of a long prison term in 2002 .
these appeal to russians nowadays seems like the stew of nationalist are the key ingredients . judging by putin ’s most recent address to parliament , his regime is fully aware of the danger posed by populist nationalists . it to counter this eruption of nationalism while maintaining its strong statist rhetoric , the regime will try . is likely . . but , in order to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to take its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . this wo n’t be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of bureaucracy and the security apparatus .
in taiwan , tsai is equally committed . last year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 . today , coal and natural gas provide more than two thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . have called with the capacity coming primarily from solar and offshore wind to increase the next eight years 20 % , tsai this new load would easily replace the electricity generated by the country ’s six nuclear reactors .
we will require policies , programs , and capacities that they are used sustainably , without distorting food markets or compromising food security , which will always be the first priority , that ensure ensure . as production of these fuels . by how little they contribute to the total world fuel supply today , the biofuels of the pioneers would probably be surprised . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on fuel derived from peanut oil . once to plant sugar cane , convinced that the united states would not tolerate the pollution from burning fossil fuels or the dependency implicit in importing oil to produce gasoline , i buying a country . scouted florida . , henry ford . to secure affordable energy , generate income , and mitigate the dependency of which ford warned due to efforts regained their original appeal . , only in recent decades have biofuels .
many british people believed in a “ free trade empire . ” lloyd george , the future prime minister , that he was more afraid of the german sausage than he was of the german navy , i told myself myself . ; others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , germany as a barbarian society surviving on horse sausages and dog-meat , i caricaturing him . . one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food . organized traveling show , political entertainment , color posters is radicals and liberals . in towns , displays in shop windows to ordinary consumers , i thought the tariffs costs . .
proved northern european banks lethal , encouraging to pad their balance sheets with southern european government and bank bonds is a regulatory environment inordinately lax . it lost woefully expensive economies in its wake , when the bubble burst . use the storm fronts calm to from the ground , rethink the european currency . , europe should now . despite a common european state absence , the effort to and impose fiscal union on top of create a european equivalent of the dollar is bound . it will more animosity stoking , turn member countries into debtors and creditors to each other .
indeed , the latter now stand at more than 15 % of gdp . the hits chinese exports are likely to take as a result of the region ’s currency depreciations are , nevertheless , unlikely to be felt immediately . will need to be stabilized before they can push their exports aggressively is asian economies in rival . furthermore , exchange rates floating coming may increase in some asean countries . because of this , their exports the price competitiveness may be lessened .
moreover , are real disagreements within the us bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat mr. mali 's qaeda makes us interests that is there . operational and significance symbolic following from above thus . operationally , it does not involve ground troops is limited to isr . . symbolically , it means backing undertaken by significant efforts initial . for europe , this situation two counts is worried . .
although had foreign liabilities same amount in the government , the private sector has large foreign assets . even so , argentina went bankrupt , because wealthy argentines had spirited their assets out of the country , and thus out of the reach of the government , while poor argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to satisfy foreign creditors ’ claims . held not by households , but by institutions , such as pension funds is the foreign assets of the country . , and they can be identified on the other hand . this the case is usually in europe . . this analysis suggests that the “ excessive [ current-account ] imbalances ” procedure that is to be introduced under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems in large part from their shared love of football . household names is barcelona , real madrid , chelsea , and milan stars . but exposure to foreign stations of television also means that many disillusioned algerians are looking towards escape to italy , france , or germany as their only hope of employment and a decent life . will the months of coming bring genuine change to algeria ? will social and economic reforms be implemented to ensure an equitable distribution of the country ’s oil and gas wealth ?
they led households to refinance their mortgages , and fueled a bubble in housing prices , but because they boosted investment . , interest rates lower was not so much . in short , as greenspan departs , he leaves behind an american economy burdened with high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability . it what to support the tax cut led green@@ span . , clear is still . was he the bush administration currying favor , or was it a massive economic misjudgment ? the most likely explanation is a combination of the two , for he and bush were pursuing the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy , which calls for tax cuts to be used to reduce revenues , thereby forcing the public sector to be downsized .
can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises land rights conflicts , ethiopia is barely the only example . contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 is ar@@ able land competition . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war . and driving migrants to europe is an important factor . land mis@@ management stemming . if exacerbate existing problems for climate change effects , land-related issues will continue to global stability .
they would contribute per capita to the carbon dividend far more because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else . than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would get back more than they put in , they would pay much more the point more . distribute predominantly wealthy high polluters money to predominantly low - and middle-income low polluters , all while reducing co2 emissions would be carbon carbon in short . on its own , it would represent a smart step in the right direction – one that would n’t invite a “ yellow vest ” reaction . but do n’t let anyone tell you it ’s a silver bullet .
that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership as well as accommodating trade unions , germany is a lesson of further for sar@@ ko@@ zy . german chancellor angela merkel does n’t make speeches attacking the strong euro and the european central bank ’s price stability mandate . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb and has let germany ’s trade unions and companies know that they will have to live with a strong currency and an anti-inflationary monetary policy . this does not mean that merkel is a free market capitalist – there is little evidence of that . rather , she simply for stay competitive competitive by an economy , bad-mouthing the euro and the ecb sends the wrong signals understands . .
owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it is concerned with the rule of law , integration , and peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ interests . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a bad idea ; and besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu – especially in the age of trump . is in all other europeans with respect the boat of same to security , germany . just as there can be no french security without germany , there can be no german security without poland .
antidepressants is true is the same . there can cause short-term memory loss , ect is no dispute . . but to that 's other cognitive problems demonstrate memory , critics found it difficult . enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and inability to remember lists due to e@@ ct because e@@ ct is rarely the own given , be readily attributed . nor with lists of names or telephone numbers , which causes problems . , antipsychotic drugs , and there are still no need for the memory of of those who receive ect .
there would be domestic bankruptcy law , which spells out issues like precedence and fair treatment no need if they were . cacs adequate for resolving domestic restructuring has found . but no government . so we should sovereign-debt restructurings the much more complex world would be think . , why ? in particular , cacs suffer from the problem of “ aggregation . ” the holders of every class of bond , vultures 75 % could buy 26 % of bond if a cac required , say .
instead , it should strengthen the case for open dialogue and tough negotiation – precisely what has long been lacking in western policy on the ukraine crisis and toward the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . we because both russia over a decade seeking unilateral advantages and eschewing negotiated compromises have spent . and the west , this point have arrived . . political capital a investment of substantial will require a sustained period holding talks in the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering . take time will beyond current adversarial approaches to find common ground moving . a quick deal wo n’t be possible .
but it also technology , defense , and research and development including represents global gold standard in many fields . . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience has instilled in citizens and leaders a devotion to liberty , including free markets , and local autonomy . the us federal government ’s size and power grew only very slowly until the 1930s , when the new deal – which included federal programs , public works projects , and financial reforms and regulations – was implemented in response to the great depression . the us federal government expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal ’s support for unionization and home ownership ) . in areas social security health care ranging from defense and foreign policy , the government thought .
who is still unknown returned home have received training from isis . he was one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe , who led the november 2015 paris attacks , abdelhamid abaaoud said . isis has allegedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ external operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter-security , and forgery . hit france and turkey the hardest has so far . , isis . while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and about 900 injuries , more deaths has suffered . , france .
to many developing countries the crisis of learning account , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which is key to increasing girls ’ enrollment ) , and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to open its doors to innovative ngo models like brac ’s community-based education program . but female teachers qualified a shortage makes such efforts difficult to impossible scaling . women account for just one-third of all teachers in afghan primary and secondary schools , partly owing to extremely low female literacy .
these economic shocks have exposed the huge costs of each country ’s sectarian-based political system . and in the security conditions , to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-down of the war in syria , driven by economic grievances , demonstrators . have been established . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state expenditures to finance the regime ’s allies and clients , rather than to benefit the whole population . these regimes have dominated each country ’s private sector through cronyism , not just to extract and distribute rents to clients , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that could finance an opposition movement . the climate has deteriorated as a result , capital and skills have been misallocated . , and competition , innovation , and growth have suffered .
but i 'll test in response to economic shocks the flexibility of decreased . it european union governments confirmed the disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses is too bad . at present . this raises the old question about whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union , or at least stronger and more binding fiscal rules ( the maastricht deficit commitments are too easily breached ) . the zone of euro insurance , and we must add coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies , as deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to national guarantees . will the euro ’s second decade be as successful as the first ?
language obstacles prevent because the texts are only in english , helping their children with their homework . by many immigrant parents , today . where textbooks adapted to many learning styles , and the eea languages are translated . , i imagine a world . , but today , for it to be removed , you 'll take how long . , who knows . , pluto remains on the list of planets . how textbooks are continually by a legion of contributors , he updated revised . imagine a world . , but a decade ago , just a dream was world such .
if only they could take china place . the student leaders more radical had been reckless is . , one strong school of thought that emerged almost as soon as the killing began in 1989 . it should have been clear to them that a violent crackdown was inevitable . there were any chance of which their more moderate elders had carefully set in train , political reform of slow by provoking the regime . china was not ready for democracy , so often add this school proponents .
not everywhere , but the war zones abound of delivery problems . but in making new ones in meeting existing commitments . , i dragging their legs . is yet international donors . and all the aid in the world wo n’t stop the killing . it is too late now for non-military tools of coercion to have much effect , although security council threats of international criminal court prosecution for atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . what of the military-response options still strongly favored by policymakers and pun@@ d@@ its many , but ?
he echoing obama is only , he a reduction in us military involvement in the middle east calls . the likely region has made war . yet by reneging on the nuclear deal with iran . and by going out of his way to alleviate north korea ’s international isolation , while getting almost nothing in return , he has strengthened china ’s position in east asia . trump ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is practically driving them into china ’s arms .
each country could create a council that represents public bodies ( transportation , public works , customs ) and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs . achieve any real improvement vital is communication between and government services users . it however , each country the provincial areas similar lines is developed just as vital . . merchandise need n’t pass through the capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with the associated cost increases . can into engines of growth , i be turned . , regions
the fdp ’s ideas have broad support in germany and among german economists ( and are shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they the finance of the german ministry under the previous government positions are consistent . . but could be dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets is what might work in a perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets , policies . as we saw a decade ago , working in an environment of uncertainty for financial institutions can collapse imposing high costs on society , become fragile . . is particularly ill-advised is a temporary exit from the euro idea .
will it return to robust growth , or will we have an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? i especially since the huge debt legacy is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the big stimulus that is required , i threw my vote for the latter . , right now . without a sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , we will have a vicious negative spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , which will push stock prices down and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence , and weaken banks . will be cut back further is and investment consumption . many wall street financiers , having received their gobs of cash , are low deficits fiscal religion returning .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it over the past quarter-century , lift more than a billion people out of poverty . has already helped . . in the poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years double incomes could even more lowering trade obstacles . there are costs are vastly the benefits outweighed , but that must addressed to be . but the mood free trade has turned . in rich countries .
however , muslims in sub-saharan africa , like most muslims around the world , exhibit an “ us versus them ” mentality . when muslims form a minority , they have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the “ us versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which is why the idea of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whether or they like it , the majority of sub-saharan african muslims states that are mostly secular , christian represented , or are dominated by other religion .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” merely “ serves as an excuse for not doing anything about health , about education , or about redistribution . ” the present rooted very much . , and it 's an obsession . “ we forget that for centuries growth was essentially zero , ” he writes . “ one percent real growth means doubling the size of your economy every 30 or 35 years . ” piketty sees that as grounds “ to be a little optimistic . ”
many europeans hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere are sensitive to human rights . for good reason . europeans are also rightly worried about economic issues . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is “ an economic competitor in the pursuit of technological leadership , and a systemic rival promoting alternative models of governance . ” this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous official eu communiqués . the next year will be critical .
although the democrats have often criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . what each would appoint as the next chair of the us federal reserve is how assessing the us presidential candidates consider is a final question . . trump – who has repeatedly criticized current chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing – would probably select a dovish candidate . a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that promote massive amounts of fed-funded debt . center-leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – might reappoint powell , who has done a good job , or select a moderate democratic economist , such as former fed vice chair alan blinder or former treasury secretary larry summers .
the boston globe , for example , ran an article about the man – identified only by his first name , danny – whom the brothers carjacked three days after the attack . danny claimed that the only word of the brothers ’ conversation that he understood was “ manhattan , ” and that the terrorists had asked him if his car could leave the state – say , to get to new york . the globe ’s one-source report proved nothing – and was unverifiable by other reporters or citizens – but it suggested much , leading to a spate of equally unverifiable reports that new york had been targeted . other recent “ terror ” - related reporting has been as flimsy . in charles savage ’s recent account of the guantánamo “ uprising , ” the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials showed reporters in a video still .
at the same time , have not distributed these gains , and far less progress than other areas seen is sub-saharan africa . . examines the worldwide economic downturn starting in 2012 in the context of rural populations is funded by ifad and recently released by the international food policy research institute , the second study . it would particularly danger in middle-income countries have otherwise , with farm households . as a result of the downturn , 38 million more people will remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than likely finds . . this poses a serious challenge for the sdgs to end poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” and it strengthens the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , which is where poverty-reduction measures are needed more and will have a larger impact . rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their future potential .
the gold standard and free capital mobility of the demands be entirely surprised . could be these policies . but once the political franchise was enlarged , the working class got organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic objectives began to compete with ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar period . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization to choose domestic reflation over the gold standard forced the british government . is when domestic politics . , he collapsed in 19@@ 31 . . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept this lesson in mind when they redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 .
washington , dc – over 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap a meager harvest , not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their gender – or , more specifically , because of a dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that put them at a significant disadvantage . following iran 's second leader most powerful the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . interests elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us . a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
beyond the need to alleviate the human misery that fills television screens and front pages of newspapers lies the imperative not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . elderly people workers ratio will be considerably lower in the term although there are pockets of high unemployment in europe today . in retooling and retraining workers , particularly the long-term unemployed , the structural inertia including difficulties has been reported . , and already the market flexibility . as the german government and some corporate leaders , including the ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration can help to mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . a better future in new homes building said to be educated . is after all .
for example , each platform would contribute to to her benefits or , an equal amount if an independent worker drives one hour for uber , and walks a dog for another hour on rover . this would acquire a safety net like the employee of a full-time accumulate and manage their benefits enable independent workers . . with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , gig workers ' opportunities will increase . and they will have a powerful reason to formalize their work if is performed access from health insurance to pensions to a range of valued benefits . to benefits for workers and responsibilities a spectrum for employer offer , digitization could enable formal sector .
ensure animal welfare for farmers and agricultural workers , improve education , knowledge transfer , and business training . , and protect the rural environment must be taken for starters . move beyond ad natural and man-made disasters hoc responses , by building reliable and more effective protection systems must also be british policymakers . for example , they could facilitate the provision of affordable insurance for farmers or create some type of mutual-assistance scheme . implementing ( and funding ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . the uk must also new technologies can take its agricultural sector , i ensure . .
frankfurt – the european central bank is in the middle of a big , risky experiment . rates of key interest have remained close to zero for six years now . financial markets liquidity are flooded . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments ’ performance no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with the us federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
it is easy to forget that , years ago , telephones had no buttons or dial – you had to pick up the handset and ask an operator to make the connection . the telephone dial did n’t appear until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated “ user interface scientists ” at western electric considered what the most intuitive form should be . form is the key improving a computer interface . we ’ve seen hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone , which allows gestural finger motions , but in the intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users might barely recognize what it was . by cognitive science , the arts , even science fiction , designs are inspired .
the story of whole , but this is still . as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name means “ foresight , ” because he was always looking ahead , unlike his carefree brother , epimetheus , whose name means “ hindsight . ” as the more rational and justifiably paranoid of the two , prometheus tried to warn his brother not to accept zeus ’s dangerous gift . was pandora charmed and heedlessly welcomed her into his life , but epi@@ the@@ us . he to realize his terrible error , only later .
are they will do so again , chances . one can argue that the immediate cause of the breakdown , when examined closely , is not really all that serious , is easy to the latest crisis downplaying gravity . the draft constitution would give the eu a new and much simpler method of taking majority votes in the council of ministers is . is the problem of the crux . small countries having proportionally more votes than big countries are protected . , but each member state has a certain number of votes under the method adopted three years ago at the eu 's nice summit . this system is known as qualified majority vote .
rome – the prices of many staple foods increased dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , reached their highest levels in 30 years , causing political and economic instability – and leading to food riots – in many countries . and high demand for crops from the bio-fuel sector is including high oil prices . , she contributed to the crisis . is several factors . monetary policies and strong growth of economic further boosted as did protectionist measures , the trend such as export restrictions . they can not explain the steep hikes , while these factors undoubtedly placed upward pressure on food prices .
are glaring is the islamic state views similarities . in a video produced after the battle for the mosul dam in august , the group called for the “ end of sykes-picot , ” and proclaimed the need to redraw the western-imposed political map of the middle east . erdoğan ’s ambition to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving him to collude with this challenge to the western-devised regional order . indeed , turkey has been offering logistical support to the islamic state , even as it has enabled the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . this turkey and the islamic state kurds converge : on which , it highlights another question . .
so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets act at the behest of “ world jewry ” ( the architects , many turkish islamists believe , of the 1908 young turk revolution and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but his core supporters hear the dog whistle behind his condemnations of the forces of finance – forces that now seem to be demanding higher interest rates . donald , authoritarian , and than the us president and wannabe , but perhaps no current leader . it should never be forgotten that trump wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument , which claimed that then-president barack obama was not born in the us and therefore did not qualify for the office he held . since entering the house of white , the lunacy has only grown .
we make ukraine foreign investors attractive is possible . are doing everything . . we are privatizing state-owned energy distributors in the sector of energy . western advisors will and eliminate problems in the past in the tender process , ensure complete transparency . . put experience in this field as strategic investors on large western energy companies is for our intention . the first group of companies privatization participate will ten leading international energy companies .
even so , chinese policy choices significantly influence other asian countries , with china ’s “ state capitalist ” economic model now being mimicked elsewhere in the region . of course , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( though they later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged as well by the 2008 global financial meltdown , which gave a new rationale for a return to government intervention ) . being strengthened is the government finance of the role . , and that had been privatized . was rescued by a government bailout , a device that seems to be increasingly common is which was almost bankrupt , japan 's lines air .
without the ecb ’s commitment , in place since 2012 , to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , there would be a persistent risk to the eurozone – and , indeed , to the entire edifice of the european union – of sovereign-debt defaults . but europe has falling prices commodity benefited at least . by contrast , slower growth in china , sluggish growth in developed economies were very dependent on the export earnings commodity . capital flight would materially add to their plight – in some cases disastrously so . the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers since the 2008 financial crisis .
let the world recall that gaza ’s crisis is a manmade disaster . that conditions are worse today than at any time since the occupation began , take note . , and let the world . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food assistance . local has industry ; almost half the labor force is unemployed . garbage is piling up in the streets ; failing water sewage systems and .
new york – the european union needs to accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy , which has transformed this year ’s growing influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . has selfishly often acting against the interests of others focused on its own interests . is every state of member . this responsible for and order law panic between asylum seekers , the public of general , and the authorities . the victims of main were asylum seekers . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over the flows of asylum-seekers so that they take place in a safe , orderly way , and at a pace that reflects europe ’s capacity to absorb them .
the economists would concede that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently removed many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now allows him to replace a growth model based on credit-financed debt with something more sustainable . if they be remains seen , they right about are . despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and extending his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves to be incompatible with maintaining rapid growth . this how the technologists come to correct or avoid potential mistakes by offering new ways is .
would create conflict within europe , that monetary union . , martin feldstein 's american wrote in 1997 . he was derided and regarded as an entrenched opponent of the european project at the time . european countries today loggerheads not despite the common currency , but precisely because of it are : unfortunately , was correct , his insight . . international disputes over debt and transfers are a danger of serious suggests . , history . in the 1920 ’s and the 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at the time , mainly german reparations ) .
brave new world whereas the main distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , people are divided into different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between rich and poor , urban and rural populations , and coastal and inland culture are so great that it is much harder than before for people from varied walks of life to feel that they share common plights and goals . of course , no single novel through which to view any society , it provides a lens of perfect . . sometimes , such as when violence was recently used to quell south chinese peasants protesting official land grabs , the ccp still shows its willingness to use “ boot-on-the-face ” suppression . still , there have been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell .
are many european countries in similar trends as well , especially in southern europe , there . this face an up@@ hill battle in winning over the electorate reshaping economic opportunities envisage an active government role . suggests . . the fear of losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response . immutable faith about what the government can and should do is . , but the lesson of recent studies . they changing circumstances for experience , persuasion are sensitive . .
copenhagen – in one of his first public policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama focused on climate change , and clearly stated both his priorities and the facts on which these priorities rest . unfortunately , both even wrong , or are weak . . obama ’s policy outline was presented via video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors ’ global warming summit , and has again been shown in poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out a global warming roadmap . according to obama , “ few challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than combating climate change . ” even though it neglects to address the question of how much we can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies , it 's now commonplace for most political leaders around the world . is such a statement .
before creating an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – the english built a land empire , by expanding from the south of the british isles to the northwest . thus , while the “ outer empire ” allowed for the convergence of the uk ’s different national identities around a common british identity , the “ inner empire ” was decidedly english . supplied raw materials , and all inhabitants of the isles of british created glo@@ ating opportunities , for centuries the british empire generated wealth . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective meaning , as well as a narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later , through the uncertainty generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ”
as authoritarians claim , there are expression and other fundamental rights freedom . they free societies are essential . . moreover , as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions , a campaign of concerted against corruption . corrupt systems steal from everyone , while a majoritarian government can ride roughshod over the interests of minorities . that how has provoked mass protests from bucharest to brasilia over the past year , corruption is .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic views should be judged against this background of disenchantment , not by an ideal moral or economic standard . tru@@ mp@@ ism could be solution to the crisis of liberalism , not a portent of its disintegration in other words . viewed this way , trump ’s isolationism is a populist way of saying that the us needs to withdraw from commitments which it has neither the power nor the will to honor . the promise to work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is sensible , even though it implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . disengaging peacefully from exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s biggest challenge .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s alleged intention to “ divide jerusalem . ” nearly two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that could , yet again , unravel the israel-palestine peace process . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework agreement for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a non-starter . in a last-ditch effort to improve the proposal ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who has largely avoided taking a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy – not least because of the domestic political pressure that he faces .
new haven – the final day of the summer marked the start of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks – the us federal reserve and the bank of japan . which is precisely the problem , nothing did . is the fed . and unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit , the boj alchemists . but the bo@@ j 's strategies they 've been entrusted to manage , the economies . disconnected is the fed . moreover , strengthen to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies by a deepening commitment , the actions of latest .
terrorism is very much part of the solution , and mass destruction weapons proliferation . it 's just because we already launched a new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome if any grand new initiative for not showcase , there will be the prague summit . . offers us an effective and flexible mechanism for joint analysis , joint decisions , and even joint action is the nato-russia council new created in rome . much the message of political of rome to practical cooperation transform has already been achieved over six months . . it was henry kissinger who of 2001 , new york and washington could be turned to opportunity . argued after terrorist attacks .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime ’s terrorist activities outside iran , and the puppet master of its proxies across the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet to iranians , he was a figure more complex . while regime hardliners regarded him as a hero , many iranians who have lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or who object to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora , saw him differently . the regime to depict suleimani as a napoleon - or caesar-like warrior-poet has pushed a smart public relations campaign . , despite the last years few . and as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders not tainted with allegations of corruption , he was mooted as a likely presidential candidate in the next election .
yet he also wants to boost the economy with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and extend the welfare state . to square the circle , macron needs growth , and he is relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he exclude financial investment from wealth taxation will from 33 % to 25 % , cut the rate of corporate-tax . . . he will push for the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states , a critic of vocal of protectionism . his support of the el khomri law , which made it easier to fire workers , and his opposition to the 35-hour week , indicate his desire to increase the french labor market ’s “ flexibility . ”
since potential risks crossed the list is the dangers of war . , many americans seem overwhelmed by prague soviet empire . they say should not get involved in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude , and should pay attention to its own problems . , america . isolationism has the america of a tradition of long ; it returns in fits and differing forms . instead it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze ; has from danger , iso@@ la@@ tion@@ ism america in modern times . it become engaged at the outset of crisis or , better yet , even before was for its initial lack , a thousand times more would be paid . . , america says .
here , too , creative solutions can be found . using the asset-backed security model , we recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund and china to structure a $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this will in mom-and-pop stores and workshops from tijuana to tierra del fuego , the necessary equipment up@@ grades finance indirectly . allow pension funds and insurance companies . . where those committed to fighting climate change can follow our example , there are many other areas . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing the expansion of bus rapid transit ( brt ) systems is a proven way to reduce congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
once again , eurobonds , within europe , a partnership of green with china could make all the difference . europe , one sustainable development by new security arrangements that do not depend so heavily on the us , that promotes peace enable a new foreign policy . would also be such an alliance . i believe would regain control of its borders , allowing it to strengthen and enforce necessary limits on migration , and europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could . it would seem , new coalition government the terms of political . while the cdu/csu holds the chancellorship , keep economic and financial policy ministerial leadership . should be the spd .
fortunately , that is precisely what to do abe . in any case , the success of monetary policy to deny is difficult . . as the deflation gap narrows , however , monetary policy the impact of overall will as it increasingly influences prices more than output , weaken . that is why it is time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from the demand-focused first and second arrows to the supply-oriented third arrow : a new growth strategy . there is sufficient excess supply in the economy , when . , promoting supply-side productivity to boost demand is without efforts , practically useless . . .
science statistics and the needs has always been reported by politics . , race . now that debate is once again heating up in france , as the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has caused a fierce dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution , and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government officials are forbidden to collect information about a citizen ’s ethnic or racial origins , whether real or alleged , when conducting a census or other efforts to gathering statistical information on the population . two main reasons are , there . due to origin , race , or religion , accept any distinction among them . , and they wo n't enshrined in the constitution . is the first .
live must be paid to secure basic public services like health care and education in a society prefers is no one . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by the belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , and impunity can be terminated . prevention should begin with education aimed at raising citizens ’ expectations of their leaders . in politics and business , and accountability integrity must the exception be rule . knowledge-sharing across countries could the strategies of most for achieving this goal illuminate .
ministers petty infractions that would seem trivial in other countries resign are forced . in these countries . convincing american , that corruption can or chinese nigerian citizens , russian might seem to be a futile task . the goal because the evidence is overwhelming , it 's worth embracing . but : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive to wellbeing . recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in society is high , economic performance is improved and life satisfaction is higher . commercial agreements are more easily reached and efficiently implemented among other reasons .
as they put it , “ the use of fiscal adrenaline could be limited just when it is needed most . ” there is an urgent need to “ restock the emergency arsenal , ” particularly when there is relatively little scope to relax monetary policy . president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent them from doing so , by heckling from the sidelines , and of normalizing monetary policy began a process . , but the fed has not completed the job . . some elements of the post-crisis program remains positive to the three musketeers . enhanced the transparency of the derivatives markets , and has greatly strengthened bank capital .
need not doing china business take a back seat . is human rights . as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s trade relations with china would be undermined when dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . complained loudly , collect the prize refused to allow li . , and even financial repercussions threatened norway . , china . the same month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies concluded a drilling contract with norway ’s statoil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop business . so western diplomats who negotiate with china should call lower-level officials ’ bluff , and focus on the signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that , ultimately , decisions are taken quietly at a higher level by pragmatic leaders who are indeed susceptible to pressure .
that means that the system ’s focus must shift from speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which implies reforms of financial-sector regulation , and of anti-trust and corporate-governance laws , together with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . have turn requiring global cooperation greater made all countries , globalization we might hopethat america will show more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in addressing global warming ; in democratizing the international economic institutions ; and in providing assistance to poorer countries . americans should hope for all of this , though i am not sanguine that they will get much of it . & more likely , america will muddle through – here another little program for struggling students and homeowners , there the end of the bush tax cuts for millionaires , but no wholesale tax reform , serious cutbacks in defense spending , or significant progress on global warming . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth .
of course , that issue is completely outside israel ’s control . the ongoing fight in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . so it is little wonder that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states are seeking to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to acquire nuclear weapons , you 're in the seventeenth century higher . , however , the stakes . that openly to destroy another member of the united nations declares its desire . , it is the only country . , iran .
overlooking most of the galilee of the northern israeli region , the dramatic heights strategic importance is obvious . 's more flexible than stretching all the way to vladivostok , before , when the golan was a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly because syria , the soviet support bereft , is less of a threat to israel so , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists , as well as political will on both sides . the agendas of both parties are , however , different : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of the return of the golan , israel wants specific , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern border , as well as an end to syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country that is virtually a syrian protectorate . for israel the golan returning is the quo of pro . is not a piece of paper with the usual phrases about peace and coexistence .
east german soldiers the protests that brought down the wall of berlin joined their fellow citizens . in the fall of 1989 . but , during the same year in china , protesters in beijing were crushed by troops from inner mongolia who did n’t understand mandarin and had no sympathy for big-city dwellers . while army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are too disgruntled by the recent police and military reforms to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces from the provinces , staffed with veterans of the chechen war , might cherish the excitement of sticking it to the moscow fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for the salary hike that putin ’s united russia party announced , with much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma election . but he would be difficult to sustain if the initial crackdown support might be some parts of the security apparatus . .
but not proceeding would also a disaster have . was unstable for the system of existing , the 1992 crisis proved . even more disruptive crises europe have set would not moving forward to the euro . that how that they did , he took the steps of ambitious . is european leaders . . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government bond purchases would similarly disaster lead .
it , too , knows all about democracy claims . is of course , the us . but its diplomatic cognitive dissonance – criticizing the egyptian regime while continuing to supply it with military hardware – can serve only to undermine bilateral relations , just as the same american approach to musharraf ’s regime thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , beyond the middle east , i extend far . , such foreign-policy waffling consequences . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as president , he emphasized that he was from hawaii and proud to be “ americans ’ first pacific president . ” two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america ’s pacific century , ” indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy .
gains further through controlling iraq 's hitherto covert military effort avoiding a war . should not suffer through the international credibility of mr. bush 's . they should leave no doubt that they would stand by america , if war became the only option to give their praise additional credence . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only , and certainly not the automatic " serious consequence " to follow from iraqi non-compliance . to get these points across to the audience on the other side of the atlantic suited than others . are better . , some of america 's allies . for re-election last september , maneuvered itself out of having any authority in the matter , german government 's conduct in chancellor schroeder 's campaign , alas .
africa ’s small family farmers – already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations – face an even more challenging bureaucratic hurdle : no paper to prove that the land they call home is theirs . uncertain of their ability to control their farms into the next season , farmers ’ planning horizons shrink . instead of investing in terraced fields , planting trees , and buying high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s farmers seek to maximize short-term profits . this face discriminatory land laws and customs an additional thicket for female farmers is particularly true . . there is no women to to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without strengthening land rights , i show . , studies .
i would be under more neo-liberal policies in a decade for germany , i think . . but this makes the complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable , this does not to be what the electorate of german wants , seem . specifically with the ecb and the euro , north dis@@ content with the central bankers is north . , all this coupled . it is merely that people have begun thinking about possible low-probability futures in which the end of emu might be placed on the agenda , it european monetary union the end is not on the agenda . . that is enough to asset prices shake .
his organi@@ zers as a sunni party , i describe it . are lo@@ ath . of course . rather , it a national party that invites participate people of all orientations is described . . that have who see a less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq want is great appeal in vision . but , within iraq , there are very few people – sunni or shia – who do not see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-place finisher , maliki ’s state of law coalition .
but many are “ zombie banks , ” with too many branches , too few deposits , and funding costs that far exceed those of their more successful peers . in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector , representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion , remains weak and unable to generate sustainable profits . creates the economy of eu significant downside risks and , ultimately , the entire european political experiment is all of this . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimate , will require at least one-third of europe 's banks to close or merge . market groups be expecting a merger , such as with another german institution , commerzbank seem for deutsche bank .
they should because overall wealth huge share and a key source of collateral in finance constitutes real estate , take particular care to prevent sick sick . . but low quality loans leveraged the rise of strong should also be a concern . this will be governments , regulators , or central banks easy none . are barely popular types of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth ; and monetary tightening may growth temporarily slow . today ’s febrile political environment certainly will not simplify matters .
so it might be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed . arithmetic calculation the basis have argued this case . is many economists . but the european central bank , notably by ecb board member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against debt reduction – a case that is politically significant and deeply moral . indeed , the principle of not reneging on public debt is deeply legal security , representative government , and modern democracy development intertwined . in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , revolted against the stuart dynasty spendthrift when britain , the british government adopted to debt for a new approach .
in fact , some conservative republicans have objected to another of his appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis . and although someday the fed will almost surely embrace this advice ( i have also published on the issue ) , goodfriend ’s nomination barely survived the us senate banking committee . but , by and large , the senate has given trump what he wants , and many republicans would have embraced a disrupter – for example , a disciple of ron “ end the fed ” paul – or another conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . unfortunately , the battle for the fed ’s independence is far from over . keep a conflict of real until his powder dry may be trump .
in poverty , the spreading naxalite insurgency , the danger of terrorist attacks ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums , almost 300 million people live . : yet india continues to face many challenges . furthermore , will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies , how ? how will he manage the growing middle class ’s expectations of better infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transport facilities ? solved overnight will not be these problems . but the growing conviction that tomorrow will be better will keep india ’s polity stable .
empirically , few firms get this right : america ’s national public radio and the bbc were both recently hacked by the sea , while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to cast the first stone at a company that is breached , the proliferation of security lapses means . finally , the ap is unlikely to face financial penalties for this mistake . nearly insurmountable obstacles face would stemming from the hoaxed tweet . because few mechanisms can prevent the proliferation of hoaxed tweets , and given the high-profile response that successful hackers can expect , twitter will remain a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers make attacks more challenging .
whether an extreme event part of the usual fluctuations weather is is detection . to human activity or other factors , assign the likely causes of an event . means the ability . , attribution . the new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our knowledge – and also giving us even more cause for concern . several studies in the past year have shown that scientists can indeed detect long-term climate change in the rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and strong storms . scientists are not the extreme events at least to human causes attributing , but by using cutting-edge climate models .
the mutual assessment process to which the g-20 countries have agreed is a crucial component of the rebalancing program , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative strategy for growth will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . if it works , what will emerge will be commitments from g-20 countries to undertake policies that are globally beneficial – on the condition that others are keeping their commitments . if surplus countries are working to reduce their excess savings , but than it would in the non-cooperative case . , reduce its deficits . may be the us . rebalancing is not the imperative cooperative only . the international exchange-rate system at least is partially broken . .
these trends will government intervention require given the power of major tech companies to stifle competition . and , indeed , taming big tech has the presidential election of a issue of major in the united states become . in particular , senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – in my view , the two strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump – have called for breaking up major tech companies . but to focus on better use of anti@@ trust laws making , tend being proposed , including by legal scholars like lina khan , . because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived , this approach is unlikely .
during each of my field visits , i have been amazed at how these efforts are affecting women ’s lives . on one recent trip , i met rasmata , a young mother who told me that thanks to the safety net of her savings group , she was managing to support her family despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and a lingering drought . she was techniques of climate-smart farming adopting diversifying her income . the best part was that she described herself as a “ hard-working , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious woman . ” those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial situation or education , deserve to ascribe to themselves .
contemplate that a moment possibility if you are a prudent and cautious investor . stock values in the fossil-fuel industry – which are based on the assumption that companies will be able to extract and burn all known reserves – will plummet . it 's extraordinarily risky , these companies investing . as anyone who receives investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” that reality implies divestment another case of compelling .
it the soviet system could not compete with market capitalism is evident . only in the late 1970s and 1980s . after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , that g2 world gave way to a g1 + n order in which all other countries ( n ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was multilateralism liberal ru@@ s-@@ based a period . democratic and market-based capitalism had seemingly triumphed in what francis fukuyama called “ the end of history . ” the us broadly championed this order – the 2003 iraq war being a clear exception – and , like most countries , benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new complex value chains .
the government announced which included an increase in the age of retirement , deeply unpopular pension reforms . instead after four years of falling real incomes . addressing russians ’ economic grievances will not be easy . russia ’s economy is under severe strain as a result of the sanctions imposed by the west over crimea . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has led to weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . with few options for rallying public opinion , putin may well have decided that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under attack .
first , member states they develop a common european foreign policy want , i say . . they strengthened those institutions at amsterdam last year , and they set up new institutions for doing so . there has been no detectable progress in practice . this other aspects of the european union agenda stark contrast is . the target of economic and monetary union and a single currency , which was also adopted at maastricht in 1991 , is a bold , even revolutionary programme ; some critics say reckless ; but the fact is that the single currency will be a reality in just two months ’ time .
if perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism is military operations . , but broad international support will not be forthcoming . this last point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other " western " forces would not , particularly at this late stage , change the fundamental perception of that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond it . with clear self-defense exception - military action requires only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council . this actions contemplated by temporary alliances or the nato of more permanent alliances , individual nations is true . .
it surely will be if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily , but ca n't necessarily anti-western this regional re-alignment . accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe , syria . raging is civil war . to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive , but it is determined to fight until the end . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a clearly predictable result . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be excluded , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat of military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us .
funding is growing in africa news@@ rooms from serbia . unfortunately , while this windfall might be putting more programming on the air , it is only deepening the industry ’s woes . have played a major role in domestic media for decades , shape the market using broadcast frequencies and licensing requirements regulation , governments . but governments have also the influence of budgetary stepped up in recent years . today , the budget allocations government are among media revenue leading sources .
the next big step was the emergence of the concept of humanitarian intervention after the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars in the 1990 ’s . as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right of protection ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even though enforcement remains quite uncertain . finally , and international law politics the same developments led to the international court of justice the creation . with its establishment , resulting from long and terrible experience , the basic idea of modernity – that the power of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of higher law , thus placing individual rights above state sovereignty – has taken a great step forward . accidental was anything , this development .
axelrod held tournaments among major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a repeated game of prisoner ’s dilemma . the winner – the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome – was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . bilateral game should begin with cooperation : if the other player behaves cooperatively the tft approach according , so should you . only if the other player defects – that is , begins to display non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . it might be tempting to defect , in order to increase your own payoff and potentially even secure a windfall , the player of other is cooperating when .
as for the threat from the right , anyone hoping for peace in the region and reduced tensions within india between religious communities is relieved by the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india badly misfired . unfortunately , however , what plotting congress is the trajectory of economic . , though it may well boost growth in the short term , is ultimately on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . the majority of the world ’s malnourished children live in india .
but it is fairly clear that even in the 1970s there was not enough empirical evidence in support of friedman ’s ideas to justify their growing dominance . and , indeed , there can be no denying the fact that friedman ’s cure proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession – strongly suggesting that it would have fallen similarly short had it been tried during the great depression . the dominance of friedman ’s ideas at the beginning of the great recession has less to do with the evidence supporting them than with the fact that the science of economics is all too often tainted by politics . that policymakers were unwilling to go beyond friedman and apply keynesian and minskyite policies on a large enough scale to address the problems that the great recession presented , the contamination was so bad in this case . would have required mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age , admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . on the one hand , the euro protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export economy , from speculative attacks and the chaos of currency volatility . on the other hand , the second phase of the crisis mercilessly exposed the euro ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . rising tensions within the eu have the inevitable result been . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis have been plainly contradictory .
after all , the regime in khartoum the nature of oppressive is at the root of the many conflicts that have torn the country apart . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for the peoples of sudan and the entire region , is a real possibility . the commitment of sudan ’s government to the cpa has always been equivocal . indeed , since the civil war ’s end in 2005 , the sudan people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south has frequently had to confront militias that operate as government proxies . moreover , destabilizing the mostly christian south aim straddling the south border remains sudanese security forces .
( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but there are only a few remaining places in the world where it can be expanded without major environmental or social costs . ) to capture co2 emissions for storage underground is the solution of second . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a large scale . one approach is to capture the co2 at the power plant as the coal or gas is burned . another the air using specially designed chemical processes capture it directly is .
in the post-crisis financial order , governments must take on the role of monitoring and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur . it the financial firms pay distinguish between two sources . is important . . one set of concerns arises from the perspective of shareholders . figures recently released by new york ’s attorney general , andrew cuomo , indicate that nine large financial firms paid their employees aggregate compensation exceeding $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . among shareholders that pay structures are not well designed to serve their interests , such patterns may raise concerns .
such manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to “ fake news . ” is usually responsible for the party of republican , it 's time to call a spade a spade . consider the issue of “ bump stocks , ” the gun modification that the perpetrator of the las vegas massacre used to be able to fire faster . some senators of republican have now support a ban on the device will be indicating . drawn praise . but opposed her a ban of similar proposed in 2013 . .
this share fallen to 22 % , and to living with little more than 3 % , 11 % by 2010 by 2000 . today ’s chile is very different from the chile of 20 years ago . an incipient middle class with new ambitions and goals are now is that have left poverty , the 29 % of the population . . as a result , living conditions better more opportunities demands have grown louder . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to better health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the most important factor in social advancement .
is the only person known to have her campaign twice launched , clinton . ( the first attempt , in iowa , where she talked to about eight people in closed meetings , did n’t work out very well . ) this impressive , remarkably intelligent woman just does n’t have the feel for politics that is demanded at the highest levels . success in us presidential politics requires superb intuition , being quick on one ’s feet , and , above all , a compelling rationale for running . that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme to her pudding , true , offers , clinton numerous programs .
only a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meeting in washington , dc , senior staff were telling anyone who would listen that the whole european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . using slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default in today ’s advanced economies : unnecessary , undesirable , and unlikely , ” the fund tried to convince investors that eurozone debt was solid as a rock . debt shares were not a serious concern , growth and reforms anticipated thanks even for greece , the imf argued . never mind the obvious flaw in the fund ’s logic , namely that countries such as greece and portugal face policy and implementation risks far more akin to emerging markets than to truly advanced economies such as germany and the united states . one could that the imf would mark its beliefs to market , as it were , and adopt a more cautious tone , i have guessed . , as the deteriorated of situation .
wellbeing or happiness is direct measurement . is supported by a large and growing body of research in economics and psychology , another alternative . has strong advocates the notion of cutting to the chase by using this as the prosperity metric , and surveys of the wellbeing of reported levels are now available for many countries . including indicators of wellbeing change fact for several drawbacks but this option . for example , happiness surveys in rich countries typically show on a 0-10 scale for six or seven a score . would be to track the ways people use their time and attach wellbeing measures to each means policy more directly relevant such indicators .
if that is the metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was a failure . to thatcher promoted heightened inequality and made the economy more volatile , finance . , the shift her “ right to buy ” policy triggered an upward spiral in house prices , which encouraged households to take on more and more debt . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which de-regulated financial services , made risky behavior in the city the norm . these reforms the financial crisis of 2008 sowed seeds . .
as the links of unique , an impressive analytical edge to its talented and dedicated staff remains the imf . yes , it the real economy is the relationship between financial markets . its understanding has made important parameters . . it has bravely the lead in shining more light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change taken , and . but have consistently been subject to considerable revisions for the projections of quantitative , and he proved to be backward-looking . even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations – especially those pertaining to the advanced economies – have little impact ( to put it politely ) .
this one of the main evaluation that the outside world , and particularly the west , uses to assess the arab world is the women of the situation . is particularly necessary . . tend to focus on from islamic norms , which obscures knowledge of the real changes that are taking place , that happens . , the supposed immobili@@ sm and unfortunately . indeed , the predominant view of arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free of their belief that islam confines all arab women in the same way , when in reality they experience very different conditions . this prevents many from seeing , much less evaluating , the deep changes taking place in arab societies – and how women are driving those changes forward . an important key to understanding the arab world today depriving itself , and it will be tomorrow risks . is therefore the west .
david ri@@ es@@ man identified that react predominantly to external norms and peer influences , three broad cultural types of traditional types of feelings , and look to inherited rituals , morals , and values for guidance that . in lonely crowd . riesman ’s framework has particular resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communication technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with his three types competing to define the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and modern technology that is fanning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . disseminate ancient religious texts and western-originating literature , the two camps battle for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies taking advantage of their ability to mass-produce . however , religious books the most works of literature in the arab world downloaded are according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid .
there was ask such a question for little reason until recently . china ’s economy was growing at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % or higher for more than three decades . china had overtaken japan as the world ’s second largest economy . hundreds of millions of chinese had entered the middle class . china ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed attractive to many other developing countries , particularly in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states and thus seemed to discredit american-style liberal capitalism .
the currency manipulator of its government , you refused to brand . , then the us established normal trade relations with china . the reason is wrong with this narrative is simple . the us that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization , i adopted policies . is good reasons . is there . grow the us is gaining trading partners richer in helping mexico , china , and developing countries other furthermore , there is a strong case that us national security will be improved if , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world learn how america helped their countries prosper , rather than trying to keep them as poor as possible for as long as possible .
it whether payment will help customers more than the companies offering the payment solutions is still highly fragmented . is an open question . , but . there is one more major problem with the arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do n’t want it . according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , cash are performed all transactions of point-of-sale % of almost 80 . ; and , in terms of value , more than half of payments are made in cash . the share of cash transactions the malta of 92 % ranges from 42 % . : as is often the case in europe , the differences among member states are pronounced . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong – and is becoming stronger .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula seems to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . but egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian coup , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the leader of the army ’s supreme command , has not diminished the importance of the trouble there . substance terrorists ambushed a base egyptian military in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers this month earlier . they then toward the frontier , israel sped . hijacked two armored staff . . one vehicle failed to break through the border crossing ; the other penetrated israeli territory , before being stopped by the israel defense forces ( idf ) .
but they everything to lose from a prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict in which they would come under pressure to choose sides have , as what largely rely on active diplomacy and soft power , countries . they must ensure that global trade mechanisms of objective dispute-settlement is subject . to defend their interests . the quo of status endorsement is not a commitment to multilateralism . in order to subsidies to soes of issues account , cptpp and ceta member states recognize the global trading system . but they also know that bilateralism – small countries trying to negotiate on equal terms with superpowers – is not an option .
intended to complement the government-led reporting mechanism is progress against these indicators the grassroots assessment . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” are making the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all public-sector officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies are obliged to sign performance contracts with the central government , in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandate and explain how these are being integrated in policy and development plans . ghana and benin , meanwhile , emphasize budget spending that has a high sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its financial priorities are aligned with its stated commitments under this goal . furthermore , the governments new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making use found several countries .
on the global level , it is difficult to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s major political-economic problems . it is hard , at least for me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the past fifty years that would have transferred any significant portion of the wealth of today ’s rich nations to today ’s poor nations . in the post-@@ world war elections would have impoverished nations now in the rich north , i 'm such . , envision options . , i can easily . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping becoming china ’s leader in 1956 rather than 1976 would have done the job there . but human psychology requires a revolution of wholesale . would would have made the south richer at the price of reducing the wealth of the north .
repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . the creditors comprise only 1 % . , but would receive a total of $ 1.5 billion is the other vultures n@@ ml and capital . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion . and , because the debt restructuring stipulated that all of the creditors who accepted it could demand the same terms as holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook for $ 140 billion more . every argentine might thus owe more than $ 3,500 – more than one-third of average annual per capita income .
it will its role in international trading system the wto next phase be essential after bal@@ i . the major international financial institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the regional development banks – are having to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . frayed the nations of united authority until we reverse the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges will not improve . business can moan and the media can carp , but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems is more – or at least better – government , not less .
economists and moralists have been united in believing that you should actually spend less than you earn – in order to “ save ” for the proverbial rainy day or for old age . getting into debt was long associated with profligacy or fecklessness . and if it to repay the obligation when it fell due , by selling assets , reducing consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three was a honour . , became indebted for a person . the debtor in prison failure to debt on time is repay . : indeed , it was often more than a point of honor . institutional debt governed is a same place .
allowed asian countries , including and india 's china , to capitalist policies pursue , mar@@ x@@ ism was more broadly . although china ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party , after 1989 , was able publicly to subordinate ideology to wealth creation . that example , in turn , had asia and behind communist parties is a constructive influence . . far beyond the west , the post-1989 gains extended . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating a menacing empire and opening the way for china rapidly to pursue its interests globally .
nigeria , and the somalia al-shabaab , boko haram , and the destruction of su@@ fi in mali rather than condemning the adoption of terrorist tactics by the taliban in afghanistan . they believe they are acting in the interest of the majority , i do n't significant influence exert . , while none of these groups represents a majority point of view . religious tolerance prospects indication could provide developments following the arab spring . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi resigned from the party , saying that this would allow him to represent all egyptians more effectively , and promised that he would respect minority rights . give him these early steps positive unprecedented executive power raise concerns for yet subsequent actions
and this group will unite with democratization forces both at home . fourth , reversal of the verdict on june 4th is an historical inevitability , as well as the wish of most of china ’s people . official reevaluation is just a matter of time , almost every chinese person knows . ; june 4th the spirits of every chinese patriot weighs . indeed , the top leadership of the party 's has ever since it occurred , the event been divided . . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down - notably deng xiaoping and others of the party elders – have died .
mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority and has allowed financial markets to veto the selection of a minister by a popularly elected government . italy surrendered monetary sovereignty to an external , independent decision-maker , the european central bank by joining the euro . it also undertook specific commitments with respect to the conduct of its fiscal policy , though these constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . these obligations place real limits on the italian authorities ’ macroeconomic policy choices . in particular , the absence of a domestic currency means italians can not choose their own inflation target or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies .
we how misplaced national priorities western can bring ruin on a non-western nation see , once again . the extreme extreme will usually vary over the moderate in the ideas of any contest . the mist now wears islamic garb , and stands for the creator , for faith , and for a theocratic order in pakistan . would who calling for a liberal , democratic country is in pakistan . is a pakistani liberal stand for ? indeed , . by contrast ? in the dark , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but for the believers to unite behind the one true faith .
for they should , i believing . , strong reasons is there . japan has relatively strict laws protecting animals ’ welfare . must be a method that as much as possible minimizes their pain . slaughtered for example these laws are similar to regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which require that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when they have their throats cut and are “ bled out . ” there are of course circumstances where the stunning fails and animals are killed while fully conscious ; but when stunning works properly , it does reduce the animals ’ suffering .
cambridge – president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his political communication skills , perhaps because he is so different from predecessors such as franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” although large segments of the american population hated them , fdr and reagan and as a whole , american people addressed . . . elected that , by contrast , trump . appealed to the minority . after taking office , a series of false statements and provocative executive orders but has undercut his credibility with the center . , and sounded like a campaign in his inaugural address .
of the modern independent central bank , a device that has helped dramatically reduce inflation levels worldwide , stability was the price achievement important far more . but they are r@@ ari@@ ties yes , a places of few , such as venezuela , still triple-digit price growth have . it if they would have low inflation today instead of joining the euro , italy and spain had simply granted their central banks more autonomy , it 's very likely . . think greece would have managed as well that many poor african countries have been able to keep inflation well within single digits , but greece is admittedly a less obvious case . they would have had the option of partial default through inflation could never dug as big a hole of debt . , if southern european countries had kept their own currencies .
cohn ’s sin was to let it be known publicly that he almost resigned following the violence last month in charlottesville , va. , when trump equated white supremacist and neo-nazi demonstrators , many of them armed , with those who opposed them . actually , one can have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants to have it both ways , as cohn did – letting his apparent anguish be known without acting on it . can be problems when a president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser , but there . cohn has been seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices , and he has wanted to succeed janet yellen as chair of the us federal reserve . speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump ” peaked in early september , when the president suddenly cut a deal with democratic congressional leaders .
but real as the rewards of potential is the risks . of corruption , conflict , and degradation , are persistent sources . , resource industries . are often located in less-developed countries that suffer from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and environmental challenges is and carbon deposits mineral . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to management of revenues and environmental commitments – is crucial for realizing the sector ’s economic potential , and avoiding conflict and collapse . on may 17 , issue implementing section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act for a final rule for the us securities , the advocacy organization ox@@ fa@@ m .
with almost 50,000 indians or people of indian origin living in the region , go back over the last century . are close , links to west africa . fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe is scores of people . while exit controls are in place in all of the international airports in the affected regions , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but can be up to 21 days ) means that someone with no symptoms from a recent infection could make the trip to india without triggering alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi airport indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government requires , were loosely enforced , with a number of passengers exiting the terminal holding completed ebola information cards that should have been handed to immigration officials . it seems unlikely that india ’s government will be able to keep tabs on all of the arrivals from west africa .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has announced some of the most draconian public-sector cuts any developed country government has ever attempted . indeed , his minister of education recently declared that funding for britain ’s universities would be slashed by as much as 40 % . but the move the aspect of most shocking is that arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than science and engineering , which are supposedly better for business . the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new – though this is the first time that the fight has migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policy and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized the national endowment for the arts .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and security officials surprised me . the head of internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes currently being committed against libyans , refused to call the process a “ reconciliation . ” for him , it was “ repentance from heresy . ” given the recent wave of uprisings , it is more evident than ever that any “ reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world previously were aimed only at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for criminal abuse of power . the reform “ debate ” within these regimes boiled down to a struggle between different branches of the security-military apparatus over the best way to preserve the status quo .
the fed can that it pays on deposits , raise the rate of interest . if credit expands too quickly . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the quantity of private lending . that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how it would work in practice . how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise the interest rate on deposits to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ? what if 4 % or 6 % or even % be was the rate of interest . ?
promised to address this problem is nanjing policymakers . they what would signal when any country , including the us and china , was at risk of a crisis , indicators developing a set tasked the g-@@ 20 . . they the country in question would be compelled to correct its policies when the warning lights flashed yellow , i ensure . called for the process . . are better at are at preventing the next one reflecting the last crisis , unfortunately , early warning indicators such . in ways that are difficult to predict using backward-looking indicators like those being devised by the g-20 is constantly changing . is the financial risk of the nature .
moreover , did nothing to roll the patriot act to suppress hundreds of photographs depicting sexual assault in us-run prisons has sought . , obama . obama , be backtracking this way , a scholar of constitutional , should n't why ? first , he does not dare appear to be “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs to be able to try the guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting , or even keep them from trial forever : lawyers claim that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the military that obama could be holding scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are crime scenes . according to wells dixon , a lawyer at the center for constitutional rights who represents some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling the torture practices crimes , so it calls them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in court .
if the authorities – specifically the federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this is not possible , they have the legal power to force the banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without causing another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the kind of global panic that resulted in the days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . in particular , experts like hoenig who have thought about the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy emphasize that it simply would not work for a corporation the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . “ panic is about panic , ” hoenig says , “ and people and nations generally protect themselves and their wealth ahead of others . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters and prevent the grabbing of assets . ”
paris – the central paradox of french politics was confirmed once again on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to select local authorities ( the so called conseiller général ) , the far-right national front gained 11 % of the votes cast , but secured only 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago . replaced in january by marine , his no less charismatic daughter but a pen . and the fate of the front may be changing , too with that change .
with technical support like this , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system that will be fully financed with domestic resources by 2019 . i believe that the global fund is one of the smartest investments that we can make – as many governments have understood from the outset . the united states has been the global fund ’s largest supporter , but many others have done their part . for example , australia has provided us $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled nearly 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 people to receive tb treatment , seven million people to be cured of malaria , and 14 million bed nets to be delivered to families in need . the global fund has brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should make donor countries ’ citizens proud .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers – can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundation about effective development spending . and these lessons are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe their governments should focus solely on domestic issues and let recipient countries deal with problems as best they can ( opposition to aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday newspaper recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . prior to his election victory , us president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries that hate us , ” reflecting a widespread belief that aid needs to be cut . the average american states be thirty-one-times higher , but the united states federal budget less than 1 % to aid allocates .
but faces export embargo us-led designed to throttle it financially is currently the second . , and the first fell prey to a long us occupation . as a result , america ’s efforts to give international effect to its new iran sanctions act constitute a double whammy for india . first , it threatens to sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on the islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar – which have managed to ride out the arab spring . it for india difficult to at a time when the us is hastening its military disengagement there and seeking to cut a deal with the taliban , play a more active role in afghanistan . will make second , further isolation of iran . india , afghanistan one of the aid donors largest , must rely on iran for access has no contiguous corridor to that country .
the key obstacle to this proposal is the requirement of congressional approval to increase america ’s quota share . this opens the possibility that the us ’s voting power could temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require the support of 85 % of imf members ’ votes . in order to secure us support , the board of governors could commit not to consider any draft decision requiring 85 % backing without america ’s consent . in the resolution dividing the reform package into two parts , this guarantee could be included . it would until to increase its quota and recover its voting share was the us . , stay valid . .
but , almost six months into the north african upheavals , the southern island of lampedusa arrivals the number has reached roughly 30,000 . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth the population of italy , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . italian officials privately are not unmanageable for the figures of current , i confirm . . of right-wing populist parties , which no longer need to be on the defensive is the pressure . the recent migration concerned as for the other governments . has become much harder to make is openness , inclusion , and diversity in european societies case .
while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and causes great structural problems , it also means that the state reacts extremely counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy to a great extent , which benefits the entire world . in 2008 , which , according to a recent oecd forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 , she saw a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp . is the german state . thus , the economic stimulus provided by german budget 's state will amount in 2009 to 4.4 % of gdp . will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into exactly the same economic stimulus as in germany , 4.4 % of gdp , and according to the same oecd , at 5.8 % of gdp was the budget deficit in 2008 . . germany because it does not have the problem of heavily indebted households that are now restricted in their borrowing , he has much more inner stability than the us . in addition .
but russia to cement the current concept of the brics into an irreversible reality , and die hard ideas . the ossification of the brics into a de facto global institution move forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” that as its desire to the global reserve currency unseat the dollar declared each member , meeting made a distinct side against the united states . . a few months earlier , the four were moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system . in the private sector , bric index funds have proliferated , though goldman sachs has radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term – the “ next 11 , ” or n-11 – to the debate .
advocating supply-side economics to the white working class , he convinced millions that “ less government , ” which meant cutting federal programs , including education – would bring “ morning in america . ” with his well-rehearsed sunny disposition , reagan expertly with a decidedly hollywood flair , i as president , he played his role . . . his strategic defense initiative , intended to end the nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was actually nicknamed “ star wars . ” reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his ability to dole out cowboy cruelty with movie-star charm , though luck also played a role . was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose effort to reform the soviet union hastened its collapse after all , victory in the war of cold
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , the riots and death recently seen in xinjiang could have been taking place in russia . instead of hearing about a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , we might be reading about hundreds killed on the streets of almaty , and columnists would be making comparisons to the bloody crushing of ukrainian independence demonstrations in lvov the previous year . there would be some feeble international condemnation , and or possible links between kazakh militants and exile groups some speculation as with china . would remind us and that ukrainian claims to independence are historically dubious , that kazakhstan had never been a country . , experts get the picture is substitute xinjiang for tibet and kazakhstan for ukraine and you .
so the imf did , why ? the obvious answer : china mounted a full-court press to change minds . in august , the currency ’s exchange-rate regime was loosened slightly . issued in london was government bonds renminbi-denominated . , and plans to create new trading platforms for the currency in several european financial centers were laid . . and chinese policymakers made they would a negative decision be how unhappy , it abundantly clear . .
for the us trade deficit , they 're not the reason . , but foreign import obstacles . spending more than they produce is americans . is the real reason . the result of us households and businesses the saving and investment decisions is the trade deficit overall . the policies of foreign governments affect only how that deficit is divided among america ’s trading partners . the reason why americans ’ saving and investment decisions drive the overall trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more of total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
many modi supporters claim that the demonetization policy ’s problems are a result of inept implementation . flawed was fundamentally is their design . , but the truth . there was no “ policy skeleton , ” no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence that alternative policy options were considered . it that no impact study was carried out seems clear . , judging by policy tweaks blizzard since the announcement . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment he has created , modi has been discussing going even further , moving india to an entirely “ cashless society . ”
washington , dc – terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – famous for its kidnapping of 276 school girls in 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and assaults on civilians . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab has carried out two major attacks , on nairobi ’s westgate shopping mall in 2013 and on garissa university in 2015 , as well as many smaller acts of terror . meanwhile in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists – orchestrating attacks on a museum and a beach resort . and in mali , shortly after the attacks in paris , gunmen belonging to a affiliate of qaeda killed the hotel radisson bl@@ u in ba@@ ko 22 people stormed .
that the thousands of princes is not true . . the new generation to fighting in front of the customers has fallen . as the older generation dies off . indeed , with the ratio of royals to commoners now at one to a thousand ( compared to one to five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing princely privileges , salaries , and demand for jobs has never been more intense . which enable the princes to award contracts and receive commissions on top of their salaries , the civil service include lifetime sin@@ res is royal perks . sectarian tensions are growing , and so divided the saudi regime .
london – julius nyerere , the first president of tanzania , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to pay our debts ? ” that was in 1986 , before the public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burden . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia . over the last year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulled the famine brink somalia . clean water provision , nutrition was mobili@@ sation aid . was almost $ 1 billion as the worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated livestock .
brazil and other countries that complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars , ” have now suddenly gotten what they wished for : a likely early end of the fed ’s qe . the consequences – sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty . whether the correction in risky assets is bear market or the start temporary will several factors depend . one whether the fed will truly as quickly as it signaled , i exit from q@@ e . is . its withdrawal of liquidity support the pace will slow a strong likelihood . is there .
berkeley – since the end of 2014 , we have been advocating a model of us governance based on the tenth amendment of the us constitution , which states that , “ the powers not delegated to the united states by the constitution , nor prohibited by it to the states , are reserved to the states respectively , or to the people . ” been exercising these rights of constitutional is increasingly california . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader . would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
for fiscal consolidation , which is so heavily favored in europe , it was finally undermined by recovery in the united states . is slipping . , europe . yet i from davos , it took another conclusion . . i moderated a session on “ the new context in east asia , ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the exception of the japanese participant , all had first-hand experience with the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . asia into the debate between europe and the us draw resist the temptation . , i could n't .
great scientific minds have learned over the course of many decades to “ read ” the earth ’s history , in order to understand how the climate system works . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( such as satellites reading detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) in order to advance our understanding . threatening chemistry biology and of the planet is large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas . : and the message is clear . we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that will damage the food supply and the quality of life of the planet . the ipcc and the climate scientists are telling us a crucial message .
see a europe of united as a strong partner of the us is some advocates of integration . others are to set up a rival power center , however unrealistic this appears to be motivated by a desire . . begun and europe 's role in international law the different views of the us pointing . , as opposed to the use of force , in resolving disputes is some commentators . it europeans emphasize diplomacy , rather than military might , to resolve disputes is not surprising . , they argue because europe is militarily insignificant . that americans chafe at constraints on their ability to take advantage of us military hegemony , no one should be surprised .
moscow – the crisis in georgia last august tested europe ’s security system , and the system failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . re-examine its current security arrangements , analyze what happened , and in these arrangements reforming , take this analysis . must be considered as a result . even before the crisis of georgia , russia already revisit the mechanisms of european security , including its international and regional institutions and their functions saw a need . . we mutual security guarantees binding treaty system is legally new . suggested to ensure equal security throughout europe . has shown interest in launching such a project believes the russian initiative . is the union of european .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be met with violence ? that question was virginia , charlottesville the tragic events raised on 12 july 2008 . to protest the planned removal from a public park of a statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war held a job . , white supremacists . street broke fighting , and was organized by a counter-protest . how james fields , a white nationalist , into a crowd of counter-protesters , he drove his car at high speed . is 19 people , and a woman , heather heyer , was killed .
and wen has indicated that village elections might be extended to the next highest government level – township administrations – over the next few years . china 's modest experiments with local elections have been supplemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” these take the form of high-tech town hall meetings . professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly using keypad polling devices and handheld computers to decide how the city should spend a $ 6 million public-works budget , you hired . is chinese officials . has been replicated elsewhere in china was considered hugely successful . is the exercise of zeguo .
european regulators have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with a record of illegal fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped support “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fisheries laws . the eu , japan , and the us would be even more effective if they aligned their policies to prevent criminals from accessing their markets and enabled legitimate operators to benefit from a “ supercharged ” level of access . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated technology for seafood traceability – data and intelligence gathering that helps pinpoint exactly where seafood comes from , and when and by whom it was caught . such efforts – for example , the electronic documentation scheme for the atlantic bluefin tuna catch – represent one of the most effective tools to eliminate illicit fishing . replenish marine life and secure food and livelihoods for billions of people will eliminating rogue fishing .
but faced with limited infrastructure and me@@ ager services , bad housing , the poor of urban are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood diseases , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they likely to most by natural disasters , such as the floods and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january be hit are . create fragile environments that spawn civil disorders , resulting in death and injuries is dense concentrations of poverty . is . is a second generic feature of emerging-market cities . but that emerging-market cities could improve and maintain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes , the oxford university of a symposium of recent concluded . stem from opportunities for innovation created by the physical concentration of people and economic activity is many solutions of potential .
this set a trial date , to present the evidence against these individuals , i making it possible . was followed by the court of justice . . represent the first effort of guatemala 's to bring high military officials to trial is the courts ' actions . because the lawyers of defendants appealed the case has delayed . , the trial . are in the matter of myrna mack , our successes . , but achieving them has proved difficult : the investigator of police was assassinated ; judges have been threatened ; and witnesses have fled into exile . i have been harassed and organized discredit me campaigns .
we are facing a climate emergency that demands radical and urgent action : are right about geoengineering proponents . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 , and reinforced the point last month , with its report on climate change and land . some major economies – including canada , ireland , the united kingdom – as well as regions and cities have now officially recognized the scale of the crisis . the question is whether this will translate into a commitment to take the necessary action . that certainly did not happen at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland .
is at the end of a political cycle , the european power with the closest historical and cultural relationship with russia , germany . she has the clout or the energy to rally europeans themselves , but to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world . no longer , but it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors , the conclusion is quite simple : partly by default , and partly because of the sheer energy and imagination of its young president , this is france ’s moment . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is perfectly in tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . mediating between different systems , and looking beyond the current incarnation of other countries , was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct .
they the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies would need democratic countries . , i understood . . so they contemplated only a “ thin ” globalization , with capital flows restricted largely to long-term lending and borrowing . as a permanent feature of the global economy , not as a temporary expedient viewed capital controls . is john maynard keynes , who wrote the rules along with harry dexter white , . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s as a result of the inability or unwillingness – it is not entirely clear which – of leading governments to manage the growing tide of capital flows . do away with national sovereignty altogether is is the path of third identified by the trilemma .
but if that makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to verify , it may still be possible to set limits on certain types of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) and negotiate rough rules of the road that limit conflict . strategic stability will be maintain difficult in any event . there is by a heightened reciprocal fear of surprise in nuclear realm is better . because technological innovation . may increase the role of prevention and denial , and however , enhance the role of punishment may be more forensics of attribution . . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks and the growing importance of internet entanglement to their economic wellbeing , cost-benefit calculations of the utility of cyberwarfare may change .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto the deal proposed by the un secretary general ’s special envoy , former finnish president martii ahtisaari . we agreed to a further four months of eu-us-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone was left unturned in the search for a mutually acceptable compromise in the order , even then . georgia and breaking the country in three weeks from support for territorial integrity by contrast . ask itself about the relationship between short term military victories and long-term economic prosperity must now be russia . the investor confidence of a sharp decline followed the georgia conflict .
more broadly , such a strategy could also start to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world , welcome development . is the west fracturing . would like nothing more than to sow chaos and loss of confidence in the postwar rules-based international order is populists and authoritarians . the democracies that built that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too much on the us for its security and prosperity .
play an important role in influencing public opinion as well as diplomacy in influencing alliances with the media a wide range is knowledge-based organizations . from such alliances , a number of issues such as organic pollutants and bio-safety international negotiations . knowledge-based institutions are also to use the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy better equipped . make rules , set standards , and collect technical data that , modern diplomacy of international is more dependent on groups . that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , especially for use in programs that certify sustainable use of resources as in the case of forests and fisheries , new institutions are emerging in the environmental field .
nor was the strong showing by populist parties in this month ’s election in italy , where the anti-immigration league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote . even germany has , to some extent , fallen victim to populist forces . to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union , and the social democratic party – has been formed . but the far-right alternative for germany is now the opposition party largest . , and it took more than five months for the parties to agree . this is a very distressing development in a country that seemed to have been vaccinated against populism by its nazi history .
likewise , restrictions and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the framers of the country ’s political and electoral reforms . the legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remains unclear , and only for candidates nominated by the same party for which they originally ran permitted is reelection . . most important , the government appears to be backtracking on a commitment to allow a binding referendum on the opening of the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue , and no one will invest a cent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , as the opposition claims will happen . but curtailing democracy in order to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea .
regardless of the form it took , it began to receive some heavy blows a few years ago ( analogous to the crises that hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps it became clear that central banks that had been relying on it had not paid enough attention to asset-price bubbles , the setback hit biggest in july 2008 . told themselves that they were giving asset markets all of the attention that they deserved , by specifying that housing prices and equity prices could be taken into account to the extent that they implied information regarding goods inflation was central bankers . but this escape clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by an upsurge in inflation . should not have come as a surprise could occur without inflation .
employers can avoid the mandate by reducing an employee ’s workweek to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) . but companies can to insurance pay a relatively small fine , opt even for full-time employees . more than $ 16,000 for employer-provided family policies the average premium current fine is $ 2,000 per employee . not providing insurance and paying the fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its employees have incomes that entitle them to the government subsidies ( which are now available to anyone whose income is below four times the poverty level ) . rather than incur the cost of the premium for an approved policy , a smart employer can pay the fine for not providing insurance and increase employees ’ pay by enough so that they have more spendable cash after purchasing the subsidized insurance policy .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare short , want their own revenge and thus continue to attack blair for his `` lies . '' she has such charges proven his resilience . so far . indeed , he has gone on the counter-attack , notably against the bbc , which had not exactly supported the war with enthusiasm . like a vulture now smell the appetizingly foul scent of a lie , the uncertainty blair now circling . , but ? it 's including some his erstwhile friends and allies , a prime minister losing his people more a question , or ?
increasingly obsessed at the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america has over the past few years contributed to the general erosion of the un human rights monitoring system . it adamantly opposed several important and promising new human rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) , and a new anti-torture mechanism . the us derail the creation of a universal system of visits to places of detention , under an optional protocol to the convention against torture sought on the anti-torture protocol . here america found itself allied with some strange bedfellows that it normally rebukes as chronic human rights violators - cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan or zimbabwe . the initiative a economic and social council of the un 's was usually endorsed . without us support .
it remember in ensuring that no country ever gained sole mastery of europe , the historic benefits of engagement britain be enough . , nor . britain is at its best when it sees itself as a leader in europe : is to be said , what needs . it should be inside europe leading from the front ranks , just as britain once led europe in fighting fascism , supporting democratic aspirations , and charting the continent 's response to the global recession of 2008 . once again , the britain to lead a progressive movement , spearheading action to fight climate change , resist protectionism , and encourage sustainable growth should be ready that has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility . it must lead in to make the global economy work for people , protecting them from injustice and inequity is mobilizing europe . .
but into our economies , consumer protection of reasonable expectation is built . the company pays a price if say resulting in injury is not sufficiently tested . , company tells you a car . the same foods suppliers ' airlines goes for virtually any other consumer-facing business . . a restaurant can not evade responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware . ” users the company traffics in their data given , they 're not just passive consumers . when it comes to facebook .
the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who comes and goes ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay in their country of destination , fueling an increase in support for anti-immigrant parties . the asylum system is totally unprepared to deal with the new generation of refugees , who are ineligible under the existing framework , because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution , but from the disintegration of their states . they can be provided “ humanitarian protection ” or be granted “ discretionary leave to remain ” for a short period ; but then they can be deported as illegal immigrants . so is to be done , what ? temporary residence status , in europe or outside , would be reasonable if a rapid return to normalcy in the refugees ’ countries of origin was a realistic prospect .
in other words , mrs. obama is managing to set herself up , unprecedentedly , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” she has carefully studied not only jackie kennedy – a comparison obvious from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and page-boy haircut – but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous but underestimated stealth radical , princess diana . princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography that opened the way to tremendous social change is grossly underappreciated . in her brief lifetime , she was often lauded for qualities ( her beauty and style ) that were secondary to her life ’s work , and derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality and chaotic personal life ) that were equally beside the point . how her agenda was been genuinely , powerfully transformative , how well she had thought it out , and how audaciously she sought to manage it , few people noticed as a result .
instead , both that will involve political policy risks and even more , another round of stimulus . are busy . . giving central bankers headaches is already other risks . the protracted brexit process is hampering the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-term impact on global growth of governments ’ weaponization of trade tariffs is complicating the task of both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies currently being mooted could , if not well designed , increase the risk of disruptive financial instability and thus further complicate central bankers ’ task . the notion of a “ people ’s qe ” – that is , a more direct channeling of central-bank funding to the population – is getting more attention from both sides of the political spectrum .
he himself a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 , many violations presided . he resigned only after to parliament , i winning election . . used as a weapon against the government parties for accusations of impropriety , ak zhol . dirty tricks engaged , many opposition groups . significant progress represented , however , the elections .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been in an un@@ controlled military escalation , an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months , they offer their best for its commentators as in previous years . it will weigh on the present for many years to come happens in 2020 . is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . china ’s economic performance over the past four decades has been truly impressive .
over the short term , it seems to move like a crab – two steps forward , one step back , and one step sideways . yet asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . has grown from $ 95 billion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 is the gdp of combined . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its ability to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . serious challenges remains asean .
much of modern economic and financial theory is based on the assumption that people are rational , and thus that they systematically maximize their own happiness , or as economists call it , their “ utility . ” when samuelson took on the subject in his 1947 book , he did not look into the brain , but relied instead on “ revealed preference . ” people ’s objectives are revealed only by observing their economic activities . under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists have based their research not on any physical structure underlying thought and behavior , but only on the assumption of rationality . glim@@ cher is prevailing economic theory is skeptical . , and is a physical basis for it in the brain seeking as a result .
central-bank balance sheets have swelled , and policy rates have reached their “ near zero ” lower bounds . the horse refuses to drink , but there is cheap water plenty . with growth still tepid and fragile , no signs of inflation , many with some even fearing another global recession , ask slow growth chronic . . but policymakers have one more option : a shift to “ purer ” fiscal policy , in which they directly finance government spending by printing money – a so-called “ helicopter drop . ” to the thirstiest horses : middle - and lower-income consumers , i go straight . bypass the financial and corporate sectors would be the new money .
the case went to the local court , where the judge ruled it an " accidental traffic disturbance " and gave the driver a two-year suspended sentence . because her husband was related to senior provincial officials , she went easy . , the ruling of judge spur@@ red rumors . it quickly became a story of " rich versus poor , " widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . over the next few months , television newspapers as it snowballed into a national obsession , she ran with the story . . alarmed by the public reaction , the magistrate of harbin ordered only to have the suspended sentence confirmed when the case was closed this march , the case reopened . .
repeated military interventions in large muslim nations – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – have impeded orderly political development . but these countries ’ rising middle classes have begun to move their political systems in another direction – a testament to the power that they now wield . that power has 's demographic about the most important of which , several reasons increased . a median age in the mid - to upper twenties have very young populations . is most countries of muslim . with more than half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , political development has been able to move forward despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
though latin america ’s economies are doing well now thanks to reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . to increase spending relentlessly is a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws . is to implement . is the goal . the rules need to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt , and require transparency so that the public knows what ’s going on . countries could their economic growth increase substantially if matched by a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility . third on the panel ’s list is increased investment in the construction and maintenance of infrastructure .
second , countries must focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success , and avoid the latest shiny innovations the allure . too often , developing countries have seized on new technologies – “ distribute tablets to schoolchildren ! ” – without giving enough thought to how they will be used in specific national contexts . this has resulted in to deliver sustainable impact at scale , that failed . , many disappointing pilot projects . a new report from the pathways for prosperity commission on technology and inclusive development , based at the university of oxford ’s blavatnik school of government , suggests how countries can address this problem . the report urges them to establish a foundation of “ digital building blocks ” – including basic infrastructure and skills – in order to harness positive disruptions to education and health services .
it deny that the momentum of the global economy is hard . , but overall . this is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to get 10 % bigger every year . with a little less of it , and more clean air , citizens may be better . : because growth is not unconditionally desirable , in part . but are still be endowed with strong growth potential poor enough for many countries , and the global financial crisis have not yet recovered by many others , though rich , . so there must something else holding growth be .
camped in the streets of bangkok to were dispersed by the army , with 91 fatalities , but demand new elections . , again in april-may 2010 in april 2009 despite their setbacks and lost credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , the red shirts have grown in number and demonstrate monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , after two years , pad yellow shirts with abhisit , show their disillusion . returned to the streets . have . extol the virtue of the monarchy denounce all politicians as corrupt , pad ringleaders now . using the weapons of an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the result of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement is implicitly pointing to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
the years of coming and decades drive growth . will be decided by industry analysts . gartner , a research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that by 2030 , ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy . companies could with ai automation , save as much as $ 4 trillion annually . , i show . , some estimates . and businesses for the benefits will as automation will spur innovation , improve forecasting , optimize operations , and lead to better customer service , go far beyond savings . . there are even the smartest machines will never do , some things . ; in any technological transition , those leading the change can not lose sight of the element of human .
because they can not be good at everything , they must concentrate on what they are best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . they should exchange them for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thus exploiting the gains from trade very well , make a few things . . but , while some ideas are intuitive or obvious , they can also be wrong and dangerous . as is often the case , it is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . one of those very wrong and dangerous ideas is do speci@@ alize cities and countries , and they should be the idea . .
germany has not to choose been forced . is the trouble . it can to to preserve the euro , do no more than the minimum , continue . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until after the next election . europe would be infinitely better off if germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . it is bound to become unsustainable , and deteriorating the situation .
but the bilateral relationship has deepened significantly lately , exemplified by last week ’s forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders on better terms than ever , their two countries are now . , i gush . . for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly tempting . after five years of international sanctions , imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . but , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall a 1960s soviet dissident song , “ people are brothers ; i will hug the chinese , ” which mocked ill-fated early attempts at a russo-chinese union .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council will end on 30 november , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . as the only viable candidate see tu@@ sk . will april 2020 hold its presidential election . following iran most powerful leader of iran 's second leader the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , shift would occur . , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
and if you will help you to collect without feeling like a cheapskate , you rezz.it , pay want him . . chairs of under-used dining room a set or you can have . you do n’t particularly want to lend them out every day , but if someone is willing to pay , say , $ 200 to rent them for a dinner party , the trouble might be worth it . so you can set a price of high to make money on the side and offset the inconvenience . the christmas of $ 10,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics and you can post .
both sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance for signing a deal , fifth . beijing in early november be agreed . , and he should this month , trade representative robert lighthizer . . undergird us consumer confidence and for the christmas season be critical . will getting the deal done before thanksgiving . i am one of the few commentators who have argued all year that , despite the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make a deal more likely than not . but a wrench to this process throw was the impeachment proceedings recently announced against trump .
european union institutions , as well as germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” while france favors the concept of “ european sovereignty . ” but the two concepts defined are rarely , and used are often . . in an effort to clarify matters , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ” we also difficulties , conflicts , the obstacles of likely should be german and europe analyzed this goal . . we understand strategic autonomy as the ability to set one ’s own priorities and make one ’s own decisions in matters of foreign policy and security , together with the institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in cooperation with third parties , or alone if need be .
in fact , the eradication of poppy crops not only damage local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals , but it is also failing : opium production last year was at an all-time high . in september , drugs crime nations office united announced that poppy cultivation soared by a record-high 60 % . eradication will never be successful in afghanistan , because it destroys the single crop that will grow in the south ’s harsh climate – and thus serves as the main source of income to millions of people . so a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages with the communities that are suffering most – in order to achieve the support of the deeply impoverished rural population . the council to research an opium licensing system for afghanistan , which would be a core component of the economic reconstruction process is proposing to run scientific projects . as a way to address this dilemma .
the administration of bush makes us but . which was a decade ago predicted , preventive war concept must be avoided . among its followers , the world counts a billion men . is the muslim faith . engage in murder in order to put an end to western domination are ready . have declared war on our civilization is five percent of them . want only to put an end to the long humiliation of islam that only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make possible to peace live is ninety-five percent of muslims , including most of their religious leaders , .
would have been a highly risky option for the ecb , sticking to principle but blindly . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what has been called “ redenomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers , without their parliaments ’ approval , to a potential obligation to bail out – well , whom , exactly ? indeed , it over-exposed to southern european debtors is a typical stakeholder in north european banks . is supported by the typical northern european taxpayer . appears . . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s activities as being incompatible with european treaty provisions that prohibit bailouts and monetary financing of the debt of eurozone members .
by the fight against isis to the soviet union comparing , trump a great power status elevates terrorist organization . . this that is much more potent than it actually is , again playing into the hands of isis recruiters , perceptions states contributes . trump has also expressed his interest in cooperating with russia to take down isis , seemingly oblivious to the fact that russia ’s involvement in syria is focused on propping up assad ’s regime . to make a deal with iran , which is more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria could lead such a partnership . iran is now permitting russian long-range bombers to using one of its air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous effort to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin on ending the civil war .
indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans aspire to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( especially health care and education ) , but also that they are prepared to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of the 16,000 respondents said that they would favor changes to the status quo , even if it required some sacrifice . and change urgent need is the status quo . per capita of the european output economic remains as it stands . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for the progress it has made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . and health statistics education are impressive at 6.7 % average annual rate . this is especially the case for a country that has suffered an intense 30-year civil war , but face myriad challenges in all countries of developing . success will a comprehensive approach require , but to set priorities will need the government . . underlying wars such as the fight with the tamil tigers are , typically , social and economic grievances such as real or perceived discrimination , and the failure of government to address wealth and income disparities adequately .
a comparatively minor role in the struggle of great played as most historians now acknowledge , the western democracies . he could either condemn both totalitarian powers or condemn neither of them , i believed . is the pope . but any condemnation by pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as support for hitler ’s war effort . and a condemnation of nazism could have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . very few people in the vatican – indeed , in europe at large – had any real knowledge in those days of the vast industrial might of the united states .
national boundaries indifferent data traveling instantaneously around the world . i believe even surpass , the roles that petroleum and the internal combustion engine played in the twentieth century , the social economic and impact of such data will rival . by its nature , data easily overcomes physical obstacles . multiply further multiply . , net@@ worked , the advantages and effects . conversely , of even a single closed-off room appear anywhere should be the equivalent . , the resulting losses the entire network extend .
until 1991-93 did not start . , trade reform of serious . focused political capital and administrative resources their scarce on areas other than trade liberalization is both countries governments . they are both the bank of world criterion as globalizers , because both india and china did increase trade substantially . but higher growth and expanded trade early fostering is barely a factor . , as their experience reveals -- along with the experiences of many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization . it see the world bank this simple reality catching is good . .
he took me to a map of vietnam and asked me to locate the areas of destruction , i felt what if he wanted to . , i suspected he could not turn . is a prodigious , restless energy . soon after i began to recount my observations . i felt that the request was a test – one that i was prepared to take , as i had carried maps with me in the forward air-control planes . he only if i writing anything had , i made no comment . , but seemed deeply engaged . . but it was in longhand that i did . , i said . he gave me who was a general i produce a typed copy , i suggested . .
in most hunger-alleviation strategies , there are these innovations types . this to collect and share agricultural information become increasingly accessible apps is slowly changing more people , but for example , in egypt , sudan , and ethiopia , local services of extension sms vegetable farmers are delivering real-time weather data . . in west africa , private companies such as ignitia are remote farmers alerts is sms weather . expanding the accuracy . in mongolia , rural herders their livestock the health help them receive information about disease .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape yet another clarion call to reverse the retreat of globalization . faltering trade , it is assumed , must be an adverse trend that needs to be addressed . but is simplistic , at best is assumption . understanding of what drove trade growth over the last few decades a lack lies is the problem . there have been efforts to the current slowdown grasp to be sure .
finally , to a sharp escalation in the global currency war , a policy of renminbi-depreciation would lead . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation has become the norm for the world 's major exporters – first the us , then japan , and now europe . yet another source of serious instability would be subject to world financial markets , and would be tempted to escalate their actions if china joined this race to the bottom . just as china resisted the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 – a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it must stay the course today . that than it did in the late 1990s is in a disorderly climate of qe , where china 's role as a currency anchor may take on even greater importance , all the more important . . .
and if fiscal groups were relatively high deficits and debt point starting , they would become more responsive . prolonging the current expansion will great care require . avoid big mistakes and the risk of market accidents to facilitate growth , minimize need is policymakers , particularly congress , . to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure needs a well-@@ targeted approach . is the us . policymakers and leading economists also must be more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , there should be better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ surveillance , ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on each country ’s economic policies – both exchange rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these regular checkups help to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . however , the economy of globalized the increasingly complex policy challenges ask at this process for a fresh look . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make it more focused and effective . this is one of the most important reforms to the fund ’s work in the 30 years since the surveillance process was designed .
four measures are needed to achieve this . first , with creditors of the southern european governments and banks forgiving part of the debt , a conference of debt is needed . that have now largely replaced private lenders , and the ecb must be included in relinquishing part of their claims for the creditors . second must temporarily exit the monetary union , risk being rent asunder by the necessary imposition of austerity and too long and gru@@ eling is . should be cushioned with communal financial help , which would not be necessary for long , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness is the exiting pain .
this only in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 , partly met imf agreements . is important . . finally , insist who are incarcerated for political crimes , release and that ukrainian authorities halt all politically motivated criminal cases should be the eu . selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputation . steps in this direction would greatly improve the ukrainian government ’s relations with the eu and the us . these three steps would not resolve all of the difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu .
arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia are in america ’s national interest , trump , shortly after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . has just to the kremlin come , i reciprocated with a card . , putin . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for a genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions just look like more kowtowing , raising the hackles of other us leaders . for many members of the us security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – this month , european citizens will head to the polls to select the 751 members of the european parliament to represent 507 million people . the way the election campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in the emergence of the first transnational political space in european – indeed , world – history . parliament has been bringing 43 % in 2009 of the polls of smaller shares : , compared to almost 60 % in 1978-1994 to be sure . american congressional elections average turnout is comparable . , however , the participation rate over the last decade . given the perceived remoteness of the european parliament and widespread frustration with the european union ’s bureaucracy , the level of participation and the movement toward transnational politics is remarkable .
the terrorist was the killed only person , but metal encased the bomb . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as if the head of the fbi personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at a garden party . but it is just this highly personalized form of politics that the saudi royals have adopted with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , this policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . highly personalized politics form part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s theatre of state , which keeps the royals firmly in power .
it talked in yiddish for all of them , seven languages , le@@ vi e@@ sh@@ k@@ ol was said . . it could be said that he spoke ten languages , and all of them with an oxford/cambridge accent , of eban . tumble of israeli politics in the rough was n't always been . is yet what appealed to the outside world . was too urbane , too much of a scholar and gentleman to be disraeli 's phrase make it is able . - to the top of the greasy pole is perhaps eban . he had in the yom kippur war the wake , leave government government . together with golda meir and moshe dayan .
but the balance of southern european governments depends on whether lost decades of economic growth for as a whole avoids , europe . the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive in the first place was driven by market price signals – by the incentives those signals created for entrepreneurs , and by how entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms . northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the south who wanted to spend , and ample pre-2007 spending made employers there willing to raise wages rapidly . as a result , southern europe adopted an economic configuration in which its wage , price , and productivity levels made sense only so long as it spent € 13 for every € 12 that it earned , with northern europe financing the missing euro . adopted wage and productivity levels as it spent less than one euro for every euro that it earned , only as long , that made sense . is northern europe , meanwhile , .
the last world needs the parliament election european of populist gains needs at a time when it is already beset with risks , including a possible no-deal brexit . the target of primary remains china , despite course , his allies does not available . . after all , the competition between the us and china beyond trade extends far . . china has been leading in the us for a more confrontational approach to bipartisan support catching up although the us maintains military , technological , financial , and soft-power superiority . we predatory economic expansion , and military aggression , accused china of technology theft for vice president last october .
they can only through strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms an iterative process revised , be answered . . the success of the heavily contingent nature is a common theme from studies of so-called place-based policies , such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , . diverse settings the shelf work is few policies . work especially badly is competitions among states and localities to another subsidies and tax attract large employer . . amazon and foxconn high-profile deals with recent , in wisconsin and new york respectively , have blown up .
shanghai – china is facing the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing , after decades of spectacular expansion . never mind them , but naysayers abound . china has an advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . the growth challenges to reduce the financial crisis a consumption-driven , high-income economy with a middle class large and affluent complete the transition , and if china carries out a sustained , comprehensive effort to raise productivity . his annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely to be if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth if it does .
london – as governments across western europe began bailing out banks and their depositors , eastern europeans watched nervously , unsure about what the global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm has hit , european solidarity fragile bonds are being tested . two countries – hungary and ukraine – have already asked for large packages of support . if credit markets frozen do n't so over the next month could be several . many countries of more could experience serious banking crises if the end of the year , which can not be ruled out remains the situation . .
but whether the quantity or the quality of foods is to blame is the big question for health professionals . this because quantity while quality is determined by the industry , the user is determined . is a distinction of important . . some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods – in particular , sugar – are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . for example , sugar is consistently the ingredient with the highest score on the yale food addiction scale , which measures people ’s food cravings . the processed food industry says , “ you need sugar to live . ”
to success was the key . to deliver oral polio vaccine to every child under five coordinated effort amongst private and public sector partners . tallying the exact needs for massive polio immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children worked closely with national governments . , international donors and un agencies . last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative 575 million children of polio vaccine almost two billion doses . in each country , partner institutions including the minister of health , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector and non-governmental organizations , planned each immunization campaign jointly and carefully . budgeted were counted is every detail , from the number of bicycles and boats needed to deliver the vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , to the refrigerators and cold boxes needed to keep the vaccine potent , even the batteries necessary to power them , .
in an increasingly deal-based world , a g6 of new might the system of rules-based offer a defense . if of putting up a united front , the eu is capable . , it wonders . , one . it 's becoming pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy other powers easier with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes . this has long been russia ’s strategy , and it is now being adopted by china and the us , too . for example , in 2016 , southern and eastern eu member states that rely on chinese investment managed to water down a joint eu statement on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea .
the problems of africa is one . , corruption . indeed , it in nigeria 's approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo 's high-minded is a key issue . but curb it failed struggle . . but to blow away the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency were thought . is the globalization winds . the political scientist harvard devesh kapur suggests why this is not happening . 'll improve both economic efficiency , and the state from direct economic activity evict .
florence – europeans who are eager to revive the continent ’s unification process have recently turned their attention to the founding of the united states . many , however , reject the us precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those encountered then . others , who accept that federalist principles might be well suited to addressing the problems of a european common market , despair that the “ european people ” who could bring about this new political structure are missing . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and the european union ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be resolved offer reasons . , and american people the birth .
moscow – ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , must be keeping putin up at night , or they would n’t be dispersed with such unabated brutality . that he is in control , even preening for photos in a tight leather outfit with his favorite motorcycle gang , i 'm been . has been rather than the people hold dialogue . . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after iran 's second leader most powerful its targeted killing . that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and
began with persians taking arab names and converting to islam , the persia of the arabization began , and the persian emperor to az@@ de@@ ger@@ d . by 651 , almost all major urban centers in persia adding momentum to the process were under arab control . . the first step toward the establishment of the first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslim lands was among persians islam the mass conversion . at various times in history , caliphates have asia , africa , and europe parts extended . the effort by various forces seeking to control or restore the caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
the russian government ’s reluctance to fight corruption and strengthen the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – yet stable – political equilibrium . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : as oil prices , which had plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , recovered and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel , russia would return to the stagnation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . sure enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , though averaging a respectable 4 % , turned out to have further increase and the recovery of post-crisis in oil prices been . a period of brezhnev-like of stagnation has begun , and have been exhausted of these short-term factors . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy is capable of 5-6 % annual growth .
that larger permanent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , because there is no risk of runaway inflation , the monetary theory of left-wing proponents argue . following this logic , in the uk , the labour party has proposed a “ people ’s qe , ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance direct fiscal transfers to households – rather than to bankers and investors . others , including mainstream economists such as adair turner , the former chairman of the uk financial services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal facility , ” which would allow the central bank to finance large fiscal deficits in the event of a deep recession . large fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should to stimulate aggregate demand in the event of the next slump be used . : all of these proposals are variants of the same idea despite differences in terminology . .
i good projects devising know spend too little money . , i most developing countries . when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decisions or actions are involved is often difficult . . so , let ’s assume that a toll road project is approved , a concession contract is prepared , and companies bid on it . the bidders need to plan for two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) , and a longer phase of operation when toll revenue is collected to recover incurred costs and expected returns . there are plenty of uncertainties in both phases , but especially during epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project .
besides , there is a clear business rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and rating agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” such as oil and gas projects that will become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . will increasingly be at risk of devaluation is that rely heavily on such assets , financial portfolios has previously expected many existing . with some governments abandoning previous commitments to reduce emissions , one might think that the global effort to tackle climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change , nor can we ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national government have not . be inclusive must keep all governments on board and .
defend " family values " , whatever that means . recently , a group of parliament members ( quite a large one - 30 deputies ` ) left the majority post-solidarity party and created a new " polish family " party with the slogan that the ruling coalition is in " the service of brussels . " honor and virtue old values comes from the tendency is a less agressive anti-europeanism . this movement a fear of changes to little more is also confirmed . in practice . but here people who were active in the former " solidarity " movement - for them a movement of community and not of individuals , a movement for public and not private freedom - form a new bloc of euro-antagonists .
they have collectively been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of those customers , but between investment banks and others , competition for talent and for customers seems intense . . , but that may be part of the story . recently emerged from the paul woolley centre for the study of dysfunctionality in capital markets , at the london school of economics was seems to fit the facts , a hypothesis of alternative . researchers there argue that in fragile speculative industries ( and finance has certainly been in that category in recent years ) it is hard for investors to monitor those who manage their money . they do n't understand very well how these are generated returns , but they can see short-term returns . managers can more returns and in the up@@ turn demand .
the united states is consistently ranked among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , including by insead ’s global innovation index . but it 153 countries 88th is ranked . on the global peace index . likewise , the united a fifth sixth of kingdom and the rank of netherlands , respectively , on the innovation index , the peace index but only 28th and 29th . is among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not even onto innovation indices , i make it . , bhutan . of course , a total breakdown of law and cause makes crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severe enough . significantly and innovation impede .
but the eu 's leaders the issue of spitzenkandidaten confront the european parliament . is , apart from macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – who is not from the epp , but who is , in a sense , a liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , who is from the epp but is not a spitzenkandidat . mac@@ ron will claim it as a success if the council succeeds in his supporters of populist ruling we@@ ber and . finally , within the eu of german hegemony check provides the election . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general , following kofi annan ’s ten-year tenure . the world like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access , drew attention and financial resources from crisis . , and the war in iraq . , but annan inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights . with the recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention to the most critical challenges facing our planet . furthermore , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : the north korea of iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , , and others in poverty , the environment , nuclear proliferation , and un reform the long-term challenges . to influence developments in these countries through threats and sanctions , and sometimes war , is recent attempts . have failed .
that is why the disastrous free-for-all in trade policy during the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression . if less grand in scope , something similar . , i complain . is many . an outfit called the global trade alert ( gta ) has been at the forefront , raising alarm bells about what it calls “ a protectionist juggernaut . ” the gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 , with china as the most common target . widely quoted in the press of financial is that this number .
but the pie gets smaller if they come for the social benefits . ; the pie for distribution gets bigger if people come to a country to earn higher wages . how what share the cost of social benefits for countries and countries of origin is a system in the host . given this ? sick pay , unemployment insurance administering benefits could assume host countries . and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits not related to the employment relationship , such as allowances for children staying at home and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrive . because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give the british grounds to reconsider their exit decision with their heads held high , create a situation of win-win for the eu . would be such a change .
what needs to be done has long been clear . the price of the monetary union ’s survival , and thus that of the european project , is more community : a banking union , fiscal union , and political union . those who oppose this because they fear common accountability , transfers from rich to poor , and a loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s re-nationalization – and thus its exit from the world stage . no alternative – and certainly not the statusquo – will work . it the euro can not be saved without a solidarity-based solution to existing debt and a partial mutualization of new debt , and that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union . , europe has become common knowledge . .
the eu is not deprived of instruments – the so-called “ structural funds ” that finance investment in poorer regions – but it does not have a strategy to use them . so the outcome of months of discussion might be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” to including new bugs found in the fixes , be fixed . , have will be more . impossibly long and hesitant may seem the process of reform for investors . but it has been exceptionally , by the european governance of international negotiations standards .
although educational possibilities and structures have gradually been diversified , the major shortcoming of most european educational systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers , if they want to remain in their profession , must adhere to a severely compartmentalized pedagogy . as with corporate monopolies , the consumers ( students ) are often seen as a homogeneous mass , where all students can be educated according to the same pedagogical approach . able to meet individual children abilities needs and in a way that makes learning a stimulating adventure but schools must be . other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying . within a national curriculum designed by the parliament and government the framework , local communities are financed . is its schools .
they have little chance of ever getting a legal job that enables them to escape poverty , and are in and out of the prison system . , from that point on . their children grow up without a parent at home – and without hope and support . the children of drug users often they suffer violence or early death , or frequently end up in jail . , , too , become drug users ; . what is crazy about this is that the us has missed the obvious point – and has missed it for 40 years . to break the cycle of poverty , a country needs to invest in its children ’s future , not in the imprisonment of 2.3 million people a year , many for non-violent crimes that are symptoms of poverty .
not only to absorb the labor force that was leaving rural areas but also to achieve a remarkable reduction in inequality , this created for the construction boom non-residential helped . a major problem to use the talent that colombia , among other countries , was unable to keep allowed the country . was not a major problem in the growth strategy services-export-led . 's clear for these two approaches comparison colombia ’s policymakers have been hoping that if they adopt best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody will come . and if they can still bask in the international accolades they receive from foreign entities , they do not .
moreover , there is now massive re-leveraging of the public sector in advanced economies , with huge budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , counter-cyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the immense costs of socializing the financial system ’s losses . governments starts to feed through to consumption and investment , and we face a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions . at the global level , the countries that spent too much – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and are spending , consuming , and importing less . but countries that saved too much – china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for the fall in spending by deleveraging countries . thus , global demand 's aggregate the recovery will pushing global growth much lower , be weak . .
to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism is the fall of wall street , the present crisis . the crisis of the global dimension surprisingly also a positive side has . to reorganize the financial sector and minimize the risk of similar catastrophe in the future is now charged with the international community . until now , a major part of the problem was countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate . previous demands for stricter regulations because of opposition of financial sector came to nothing . .
to each citizen to determine whether he should give his financial support to the church of rome or the one at bayreuth , i leaving it . should be neutral as possible as as much . in contrast to the militant liberalism of the french tradition , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war from using the state ’s coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls . i the importance of their ongoing contest of life trivialize do not wish . in advocating disestablishment of both religious and secular orthodoxies . it to be neutral strive should be the state . is because of the infinite importance of this great debate . . after all , if the state ostentatiously takes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrating the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world is facing another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . china is on the rise , and has broken by the former , represented by the states of united , . the international financial system gradual disintegration lead will be resistance following the path of least . must be invented sounder principles based on a multilateral new system it may be attainable in a grand bargain that rearranges the entire financial order , but is difficult to achieve on a piecemeal basis for regulatory reform international cooperation .
competition policy for the european union 's commissioner , mario monti is often usually to popular acclaim in the spotlight . he has one of europe 's economic maladies most pernicious is won important victories limiting state aid . over the years . however , due to defeats stunning courtroom a series , the benefits derived from his achievements . with software seemingly in the offing giant microsoft of a case of competition , commissioner monti will need to rediscover his footing fast . within a period of just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private parties can appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti 's decisions rejecting proposed corporate mergers .
been stripped of their livelihoods and forced to rely on nothing or a meal of tiny a day is so many proud and dignified people . we knew coming these crises , was avoidable , these tragedies . with adequate planning and sufficient resources , slow-motion calamities may be averted . is and hunger drought . but time , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980s , he has gone . , the africa of humanitarian assistance . predicted long before felt the first pangs hunger was food insecurity .
the bottom board includes transnational relations that cross borders outside the control of governments – everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . power among non-state actors is distributed . on this board . without the others of the cooperation , control outcomes ca n't be government . it this world uni-polar call makes no sense . , but here the us needs the help of europeans . on this bottom board , the degree of close civilian cooperation is also important , which is affected by a country ’s attractiveness or soft power .
global megabanks orderly resolution is an illusion , translation . our political leaders will be unable as long as we close to their current scale allow cross-border banks . . and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than would otherwise be the case . they have larger grow both motive and opportunity worse . this form of government support big banks a implicit grant large amounts .
and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil fuels , it would contribute to the eventual phase-out of a sector that has no place in a climate-safe world . fortunately , the world will not have the day to to wait for moral suasion . fossil-fuel companies and governments are already intensifying legal pressure facing . typhoon survivors in the philippines delivered a complaint to the country ’s commission on human rights , calling for an investigation into big fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility for causing climate change . sued the dutch government , it to adopt more stringent climate policies , i forcing . is successfully supported by a urgenda dutch group and nearly 900 co-plaintiffs .
a few years ago , for example , chip-maker national semiconductor three subcontractors in asia its three factories to global network linking managed a complex delivery system . . it decided to for managing global deliveries and sales , which uses a sophisticated control system . , federal express . out-source this operation . . national semic@@ on@@ duc@@ tor 2.9 % of sales % of sales , customers cut from four weeks to one week saw its delivery cycle . as a result . support a massive increase in the internet in these other locations the use are necessary . : several steps . reducing costs and spreading benefits is essential . is * liberalization of telecommunications , including entry of private service providers new , .
if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money – nominal demand will undoubtedly increase , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . the option of so-called “ helicopter money ” is therefore increasingly discussed . but confusions riddled is the debate about it . it would commit central banks to keeping interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation , mone@@ ting fiscal , i claimed . is often . . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes even by the same people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand because people will fear a future “ inflation tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers declared bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became unclear who owed what to whom , who could n’t pay their debts , and who would go down next . businesses went under , not just in the united states but around the world , and markets of interbank credit froze the result . with politicians struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s was turning into another great depression . in hindsight , the complacency in the crisis run-up was clearly unconscionable . and yet little has changed in its aftermath .
it sort out this issue is , how urgent . , the coalition partners agree . nonetheless , they have agreed that , within a year , a commission will provide different options and models to protect the german parliament ’s rights while providing assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country will be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . should the spd , which will vote on the coalition agreement in early december , block the formation of the new government ( an unlikely development but not entirely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit . consensus states from a particulars of few . this is for ambivalence , a cause . for some .
has already been delayed , in nigeria and uganda , bio@@ security legislation . , for example , needed . . much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists who object to the technology on “ moral ” grounds . they typically claim that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the last two decades . the world health organization has also confirmed that “ no effects on human health have been shown as a result of the consumption of such foods . ” rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards must therefore meet every new gm crop variety .
perhaps regulators will they must require that the regulated have the desired contract provisions , i find . . that solution will however , and because many creditors would find ways to circumvent the contract and the requirement , because not all derivatives traders are regulated financial institutions . , be incomplete . . it can expect the regulated to complain that they have been placed at a competitive disadvantage if is not complete for the coverage . regulators may well to to the problem fix , turn to bankruptcy laws , need . the regulators ’ call to the isda for voluntary action will not amount to much if it is just a request to the derivatives industry to act against its own financial interests .
the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who used “ words , signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection against the government ” could be charged with sedition and potentially sentenced to life imprisonment . in other words , indians for no free speech . but even that was not sufficient for britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than the sedition law in england . the british had concluded , in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ a sedition law which is adequate for a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and faith may be inadequate , or in some respects unsuited , for a country under foreign rule . ” as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among its prominent victims , though far from its last , explicitly intended . , sedition was thus .
seoul – china – already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer , and international-reserve-asset holder – is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured according to purchasing power parity ) this year . now , it to reshape global economic governance is using its growing man . . indeed , the country ’s days of following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone . after decades of actively participating in international economic institutions – including the g-20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to create a new world order . establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank understanding was signed by china and 20 countries of other asian last month .
competitiveness has helped progress on the single market . are giving european economies major markets access around the world is new agreements of free-trade . the achievement of a global climate agreement promises not just to protect the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . and enlargement has enhanced europe ’s security substantially . these are , by all standards of reasonable , remarkable uk-led achievements .
a special report on semiconductors – essential to us national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s obama ’s council of advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answers . the report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , proposed that the us work with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and strengthen export controls and inward investment restrictions . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on the flow of semiconductor ip to china and on the acquisition of semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the pcast report recommends that the us adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls and inward investment limits according to china ’s behavior . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand the jurisdiction of the committee on foreign investment in the us ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions of domestic companies by foreign entities ) to a broader range of investments – including chinese venture capital and private-equity investments in us start-ups – is consistent with this recommendation .
take a global shift to more renewable-energy systems efficient from crippling fossil-fuel dependency may be business-led innovation and market-based solutions . rocky mountain institute ’s reinventing fire analysis shows that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies for powering a us economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 – without reliance on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles that require little or no fossil fuels , and increase the share of renewable energy in the electricity supply could ensure that the substantially hotter and less pleasant world of 2050 that the ipcc warns against does not materialize . fossil fuels held hostage by our ongoing addiction . should not be to mention those of future generations . they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation , but the opec embargo the immediate impact economic was only four decades ago .
the captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; international inspectors removed all sensitive material from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( which is why it was absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . what if highly enriched was the cache . , international response , if any , would be launched . , but what ? on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . the third intercept was done by israel . , and missed the target . was as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in war@@ zones with the hostilities of a serious escalation , but the episode .
although dollar appreciation has taken some pressure off non-us economies that depend on exports or foreign capital , it a currency war open the risk has increased . . at the same time , not all indicators are grim . strong in most major economies remains household consumption , and even in otherwise anemic economies such as germany , labor markets remain largely healthy . . concerns of another negative shock raised the surge of september in oil prices has been observed in addition . this di@@ cho@@ tomy reflects the us economy .
in the personal-computing business – which moved from the bulky apple ii to the sleek and intelligent iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) – steve was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s biggest industries . he spent his products and his personal charisma the quality for broad enthusiasm of public . ( others have become “ business ” leaders , but only steve became someone known and admired by millions – including the romanian waiter at the british airways lounge where i am sitting now . ) met steve at ben rosen 's personal computer forum in 1979 or 1980 , i first . for some reason , it was held at the playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , as was the 3 % average growth in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . since the end of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – the us economy grew by only 2.1 % per year , on average . for the recent acceleration , what accounts ? following most powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur .
in closed-list systems , the candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , male , female ( or vice versa ) . 50 % quota should be adopted in open-list systems . it possible to of an increase in the quota percentages in the open-list systems , the impact have effective quota legislation predict with any accuracy . is not . . but the percentage of women elected elected should , all else remaining equal , increase by around 10 % if these countries the lists of open with closed lists replace . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in an approximately 20 % jump in the percentage of women elected ) in systems that currently do not have effective quota legislation .
trump has systematically the system of us constitutional heart defied the separation of powers . he plucked the money from what congress had allocated for the defense department , funds for example , frustrated that congress denied him all the funds he wanted for his phantasmagorical wall along the border with mexico , . he has also flouted the constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments – money or personal benefits from foreign governments that do business , sometimes of extravagant proportion , at his various hotels and golf clubs – and has found other ways to monetize the presidency . moreover , trump has tried to steer government contracts toward favored companies , or away from those he dislikes – for example , amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post . and according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump tried to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia .
there are possible negotiating results several when debt is unsustainable . thus giving the debtor country time to regain its ability to pay , and perhaps stretched out over a longer period . is sometimes debt-service payments . for new ones , which have either a lower face value or lower interest payments , the old bonds agree to exchange . sometimes , creditors . pay any form at all is rejected by few governments . on its debt , she defaulted in 2001 . , argentina .
this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is highly cost-effective . ” however , a strategy can be “ cost-effective ” only if it is feasible . although might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in the parts of the world where flu pandemics begin , the probability of success approaches zero , ring prophylaxis . . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china – where the pandemic strain will likely originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure are lacking . the response in turkey – where as many as 50 possible cases have appeared in the eastern part of the country – is instructive .
it remains the vital assembly center of the global supply chain for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , enabling lower prices for the world ’s consumers . that has made china a key trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , in addition to placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves – much of it in dollars , but also in other major currencies – owing to its large trade surplus in recent decades . it helps to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its beneficiaries have large budget deficits that decrease national saving below domestic investment ) . deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvement in human history and , with it , the emergence of a large and growing middle class .
for ukraine ’s government , the angst is real . look like could even what battle brought a chernobyl-type disaster understand . whether warring countries would nuclear sites avoid offers little guidance . , history . with the exception of the 1990 ’s balkan conflict , wars have not been fought against or within countries with nuclear reactors . in the case of the balkans , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plant in a threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists called for attacks to release the radioactive contents .
china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom rates for russian energy resources . once the door to asia was open , however , russian companies seized the opportunity to enter the downstream markets of india and indonesia – two countries that are critical to the saudis ’ own strategy . over the last two years or so , saudi arabia has made starkly clear that it will not easily give up its market share – to anyone . it recover its former position in petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals , there was not just crude . is campaign . has pursued . . it pushing out weaker competitors , supported by a price war has continuing . to this end .
however , refer not to money to experiential rewards flourishing all , and . would this good life offer economy what kind ? history suggests that it would be one of entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities , and exercising their initiative to try out new things ) and innovative people ( imagining new things , developing new concepts into commercial products and methods , and marketing them to potential ) . range from the grassroots of society to the most advantaged would be a economy of good participants . this i will develop hope china is a kind of economy . .
( though perhaps this is not automation proper – the supermarket has just shifted some of the work of shopping onto the customer . ) a ready answer more jobs people is to train . for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skilled labor . is now eating up the jobs of better , too but technological progress . the next casualties of technological change may be we now think of as skilled , secure , and irreducibly human , jobs . a wide range . reducing the demand for skilled labor is already gone . as a recent article in the financial times points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity increases , education and health care .
gunmen attacked her 13-year-old daughter wounded , and she shot her of an impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , . in august . killers gunned down a roma factory worker as he was walking to his job in april in february , a roma father and his five-year-old son were their home near budapest front killed . the ground burned was the house . last november , a couple of roma was in northeastern hungary killed .
the first century realities accept would be a approach of more rational . that tariffs can not reverse , the revolution of information changed the world . she will just create more jobs for robots , and us workers already working against low-wage workers at home against robots . individual jobs protecting individual workers should be trump . rely on static measures like tariffs are too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrollable . is twenty-first-century globalization processes .
he very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is he a latter-day hitler , and is today ’s iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? had it , whereas iran very well might , hitler nuclear bomb developing came close . . but hitler ’s power over germany was much more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s power over iran . the results of iran ’s recent municipal elections were humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . have been unthinkable in nazi germany would be those elections .
but this requires a rich reservoir of ideas , not a single , unified approach . decision-making should how decentralized be possible , the principle of second is subsidiarity . this alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale , local preferences and regional are considered . ensures . . is congruity , to ensure that decision-makers are accountable for the outcomes of their decisions is the last principle . liability will be a pipe dream , this means that as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking .
george w. bush ’s economic policies have been based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflects a political coalition of two major forces : the super-rich and evangelical christians . because america is entering a period of prolonged political infighting and stalemate , global financial markets are reacting negatively , the economy of world adding uncertainty . the super-rich had earned the wealthiest households for tax cuts joining the bush : is one over-riding objective . . evangelicals were brought in on the basis of so-called “ family values , ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups for social services that they provide locally and internationally . they never explained this to the public , but that they would eventually balance the tax cuts for the rich with reductions in government spending , the bush team thought . .
the recession of the brink is some countries of eu . japan in the early 1990 ’s waited too long to act and missed the right opportunity to enact countermeasures , which is why japan has still not recovered from its long stagnation . public investment in infrastructure ( such as a massive expansion of the european railroad network ) , as well as climate protection and environmental technology , will be needed . to stimulate consumption to strengthen purchasing power , low - and medium-income households tax cuts are essential . of course , eu member states should take for such economic stabilization programs , determine the form of concrete . .
for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting 3.5 % annual growth is expected . is spending by households and businesses , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , . moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , infrastructure africa demand raised investment opportunities will amount annually over the next decade to at least $ 150 billion . play renewable energy for a key role is also confirmed to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries . , africa . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe .
a former kgb general , sergei ivanov would be a far more competent placeholder . but had only the rank of colonel achieved , who at any rate . , ivanov is much better than half . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov was passed over , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing the environment and transportation . earlier this month , putin was re-inaugurated – or , rather , crowned – in spectacular fashion , with medvedev once again assuming the role of pliant prime minister . despite his years in office , medvedev is still the expensive watches of his fancy ties more than his executive measures known .
cambridge – government programs to support retirees are in trouble in every country , owing to increasing life expectancy and the rising ratio of retirees to taxpayers . as the adverse demographic trend of funding pensions and health care increases the fiscal burden . , i worsen in the years ahead . will be the problem . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” system of financing social security will create a crisis when the fund is exhausted . policies to prevent us crisis that confront population aging , another countries . are relevant . though the options at that time will be different from the choices facing other governments . here ’s how the us system works : by law , a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to financing retiree benefits .
investors continue to pour money into the stock market , and lu@@ la was overwhelmingly reelected last year while the scandals have shaken the government . to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action , the corruption scandals provided an opportunity for investors . is . is one reason . to withstand open criticism is sufficiently stable in reporting the scandals , helping to prove to brazilians and foreign investors alike . is television commentators and newspapers . he has always tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic reality , and because his populist rhetoric shows popular with brazilians , lula . he recently criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets for his failure in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the common sense needed from someone who governs . ”
refused to certify the outcome , and had invited the two organization of american states electoral observation missions that he . no one of the bolivian military true , morales resigned when the military told him to , and after he had agreed to protesters ’ demands for a new vote . provisions existing constitutional were subsequently followed but . timely elections have been promised ; to run allowed mor@@ ales . , the constitutional court deemed the presidential succession legal .
and they resent – to the point of mobilizing in the streets – any hint that a clique at the top is barring their way . this is a sort of free democratic spirit outside what elections decide the government is the convention . that happens . it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it precipitating crisis moves very fast . . it is not always consistent or rational .
countries were required to undertake only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . this as long as they obeyed a few simple international rules , build national capitalism their own versions . left them free . . we 've that model come how far . , the current crisis shows . financial globalization , in particular , played with the old rules for havoc . it gave rise to a mix of explosive , when chinese-style capitalism met with few safety valves in place for american-style capitalism .
so , even if america had no other interests in the middle east , such as israel or nuclear non-proliferation , a balance of energy imports and exports would be unlikely to free the us from military expenditures – which some experts estimate run to $ 50 billion per year – to protect oil routes in the region . at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be enhanced . from asymmetries in interdependence , power occurs . if i less than you do on me , depends on you . , my bargaining power is increased , but you and i may depend on each other . they for ultimate military security , i depended on us . , and they balance of asymmetries in which we depended on them as the swing producer of oil had .
european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about the deep divisions among eu member states over brexit and questions whether “ the hungarians and the poles want exactly the same things as the germans and the french . ” at the national level , lack of political will has resulted in the craven use of referenda , such as the french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe in 2005 , the netherlands ’ vote on the eu-ukraine association agreement last april , and the brexit referendum nearly three months later . in every case , voters said , “ no ” – outcomes that can be blamed , particularly in the uk , on national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for domestic problems . indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism is a major reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . undermines the shared sense of purpose needed to make eu citizens feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities is among political leadership current generation , the lack of historical vision .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . that model had on keynesian demand management on the consensus creation , she been based . . today , the equivalent collapse has been of the “ regulation-lite ” regime in which a party that styled itself as “ new labour ” accepted a powerful role for markets – particularly for largely deregulated financial markets . in the 1960 ’s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone was benefiting , with high levels of employment and significant wage growth .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . either side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation , and we have already been for decades at war after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define 12 months of the coming , its commentators as in previous years . it 's that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come if this year 's selection of one common theme is there . palestine ’s religious landmarks attract increasing numbers of religious tourists from all over the world each year .
as french cities have burned , other countries have been very severe in judging france . television news programs have shown hours of footage of burning cars ; have living france warnings to tourists and their citizens , embassies . other countries ’ governments , it seems , have been trying to distance themselves from the problem , fearing a contagion that they know is likely to spread . however , showing solidarity and with the plight of their french colleagues have been answered . , mayors across europe . they are also vulnerable to urban violence , in so far as they have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people their cities , i know . .
meanwhile , most commodities supply is grow in real terms by no more than 2 % annually forecast . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity , defined as the amount of a commodity consumed to generate a unit of output , falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be greater this year than it was last year . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a higher rate than global supply , prices will rise . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain in order to lift enormous numbers of people out of poverty – and thus prevent a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . declines have slowed as is the case for copper and oil , but intensity of use has fallen for some commodities , like gold and nuclear energy to be sure . .
he launch a social-media campaign to locate the drugs that his treatment required had with cancer , this year was diagnosed . . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of the government ’s default on a $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports . a similar situation the economy the rest prevails . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , staple goods in a substantial shortage leading . the default leading to transport services in a collapse as a result of a lack of spare parts exceeds $ 3 billion . in the automobile sector .
will it get the bomb , too , have ? likewise , while egypt is in the midst of a messy revolution , and must give priority to internal change , it also intends to regain a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and in the region as a whole . the “ middle empire ” of the middle east will no longer remain a sleeping giant . turkey that does not directly challenge it , the revolutionary process than its arab rivals and partners . is better . of course . after all , turkey is already a democracy of functioning .
if " constitutionalized " , they simply implant the idea that the constitution is a statement of aspirations , rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . the desire to limit or protect some forms of human activity from the free market may be understandable , particularly in countries like poland where the free market is still an unknown animal . but in how need -- such as education , health , and social services -- quick changes to the social life of many fields is a situation . , unleashing the free market to do its work offers the only plausible avenue for change . they are also contrary to the idea of political reform ; retirement , are not only insecure and inefficient , health insurance companies state-owned . supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything to do with corruption rent-seeking is these state controlled benefits have little to do with the justice .
of bollywood , which is bringing its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer another example , the movies . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother who takes a bus to dakar every month to watch a bollywood film – she does n’t understand the hindi dialogue and ca n’t read the french subtitles , but she can still catch the spirit of the films and understand the story , and people like her look at india with stars in their eyes as a result . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago the bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan was the only publicly displayed portraits as big as those of then-president hafez al-assad . , i told me . . have the effect of same in indian art , and dance , classical music so does the work of indian fashion designers , now striding across the world ’s runways .
new delhi – barack obama , the sixth american president to visit india since it gained independence , arrives at a trying time , both for the united states and for india . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening an awkward gap on national security and the economy – the focus of his meetings with india ’s government . for india , the issues on the agenda for obama ’s visit are immense and complex , and the options for resolving them are extremely limited . they have ever been afghanistan and pakistan the security related . making them more intractable is lack of resolution . , and they are thorny . , but bilateral economic trade , and as they are between the us and china .
moreover , how leaving less-privileged groups , classes , sectors , and regions struggling to compete seize access to knowledge and energy . is a winner-take-all network effect . has knowledge-intensive technology . destructive politics leading is faster than ever . , thanks to social media , the resulting discontent . this can which quickly like that in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , or they 're already apparent , deteriorates into a lo@@ se-@@ scenario , invite geo@@ political interference . . can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability to other countries is the combination of politics and economics bad in one country . there were the last year of 65 million refugees , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 according to the commission of un for refugees .
many have cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in 2014 . but such a process the spanish constitution of 1978 is illegal . . that constitution marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy and provides the framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , as it explicitly states , it is “ based on the indissoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” with sovereignty belonging “ to the spanish people . ” 's indivisible , one nation in short spain
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backward . we 've wasted far too much energy trying to economic expansion of the days return since the 2008 financial crisis . if and inequality address key problems like high unemployment failing , the post-crisis world 's challenges were only temporary policies . the post-crisis era is over , and the “ post-post-crisis world " is upon us . it shared prosperity within the global economy of today and tomorrow that facilitate , adopt a new framework of realistic solutions . is time . .
indeed , it is notable that , while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 at least mentioned doha , his address in january 2011 did not . obama to promoting the pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries , he confined himself . . obama ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round is the result of many factors and fallacies . these were highlighted in an “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released , over the signatures of nearly 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift in policy towards doha . america ’s president is captive to the country ’s labor unions , who buy the false narrative that trade with poor countries is increasing the ranks of the poor in the us by driving down wages .
recession predict double-@@ dip , some people . if that happens , the actual default of the chance would be much higher than it is today . are raising alarm bells in china is these worries of new . diversification away from dollar assets is the day of the advice . this is in the term of short , easy task , but .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly seeking investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits , in addition to market rates of return . if this trend continues , with the advancement of environmental or social objectives enhancing an investment ’s value , it will strengthen the commitment to sustainability that is already gaining momentum among businesses around the world . last year , one out of every six dollars of assets under professional management in the united states – a total of $ 6.6 trillion – was allocated toward some form of sustainable investment , especially public equities . some 1,260 companies , managing $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are signatories of the united nations ’ “ principles for responsible investment , ” which recognize environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and thus the long-term health and stability of companies and markets – as critical to investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions – a bold move that could transform capital markets .
in international politics , perceptions matter – sometimes even more than reality . the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers is rising , bringing their own unique worldviews to global affairs . this might seem like a good thing in a sense . multilateral processes enrich and global problems generate more comprehensive solutions . could be more varied perspectives . but generates instability is also this multipolar dynamic .
some supermarket chains even from battery hens , i carry eggs . ceased . pressure mounted on parliamentary representatives , and animal welfare became politically salient . the committee recommended banning the battery cage , along with some other forms of close confinement of pigs and calves , and the european union animal-welfare issues on farms investigate established a scientific committee . . a ban on battery cages in the eu was eventually adopted in 1999 , but , to ensure that producers would have plenty of time to phase out the equipment in which they had invested , its implementation was delayed until january 1 , 2012 . the british egg industry developed new and less cruel methods of keeping hens , and the situation accepted . to its credit .
finally , as vehicles for public policy , the same accounts could serve . for example , later use in professional training points endowed could be school-leavers . more broadly , instead of assisting people only when social risks materialize , public policy could support individuals throughout their working life , by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . in a way , it 's this may sound utopian . but social policy and solutions philosophy of the twentieth century remain limited . at a time when every digital service becomes more and more personalized , why should ?
it be that even t@@ 24 was considered mentioning corruption in some circles of official . used . especially as it diverts resources from the poor , the single obstacle to and development growth in many countries , but corruption . it be made synonymous with fighting poverty , and corruption be seen as a cancer . , the world bank insisted . indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . as his effusive praise , his blunt criticism has experienced . , and bank officer n@@ go representative .
an improvisation designed to defer genuine financial reform was the formation of the g-20 , for example , . in fact , the modest measures implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have been limited to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations – peace and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of a handful of countries . is not on the same page as the other brics countries it comes to global reform 's institutional , when , china . it seeking the bretton woods system an overhaul to global financial architecture is revi@@ sing power . . but it is a status quo power with respect to the united nations system , and steadfastly opposes enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership .
it can poor choices of policy , gridlock lead . the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary basis ( for example , ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly damaging in this respect . opportunity equality key indicator is intergenerational mobility . intergenerational mobility reduced requires the outcomes of rising inequality . on whether important instruments that support equality of opportunity , principally education and health care , are universally accessible depends heavily . , whether it does .
the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into a large pool of finance – not to mention contacts and expertise – from small investors . of target clean technologies that now several specifically exist is roughly 500 . . the first truly global crowd-investing marketplace offers equity companies in funded companies the concept of crowdfunding last may . if used wisely , such platforms could take up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build the blue economy . other increasingly prominent trends – such as collaborative consumption , pay per use , and sharing and leasing models – could offer similarly powerful impetus to these efforts .
all too well , she knows war@@ time plays . , bangladesh . fighting how bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan broke in 1971 . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across the border into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that inevitably gave rise to cholera outbreaks . that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely , a dearth of intravenous drips meant . , and was poor standard of care at the time . as many people lay dying , dilip ma@@ hal@@ an@@ ab@@ is named is a pioneering doctor . a desperate situation took a chance . .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 – international earth day – marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . that the multilateral treaty of landmark still to date in the global fight against climate change represents the most important step forward . . but its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s energy policies . in 2016 , the hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . the paris agreement ’s main objective is to prevent average world temperatures from rising more than 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in the history of humankind and also the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities together with the crisis of global responsibilities . could the fact that humanity thinks only within the limits of what lies in its field of vision , and is incapable of remembering also what lies beyond , not but be the result of the loss of metaphysical certitude , of the loss of god ? even more succinctly , could not today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole and for its future be the logical consequence of the modern concept of the world as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws , formulated for god-knows - what purpose -- that is , a concept which does not question or seek the deeper meaning of existence and renounces any and all metaphysics ? but how to restore in the human mind a shared attitude to what is above us if people across the globe have a different image of that which is above , if people everywhere feel the need to stress their " otherness " ? trying to turn the human mind to the heavens when such a turn would only aggravate the conflicts on earth among the followers of our various deities , any sense is there ?
he has thrown down the gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : tell us when you will phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation from income to pollution . those that will needs world , i drivethe transformation . , i are the decisions . . 's whatever stalled in many parts of the world although underway , the energy transition at the heart of this transformation extending and reliable affordable clean-energy services to all who need them is critical . is a more ambitious effort by energy providers and major end users . there also the transition is financed by a reform of major needs .
new haven – central bankers around the world failed to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that , of 47 central banks found to publish financial stability reports ( fsrs ) , “ virtually all ” gave a “ positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system ” in their most recent reports . and they should still preventing the next crisis play the role of lead . although these central banks failed us before the crisis . that is the conclusion , perhaps counterintuitive , that the squam lake group [ http://squamlakegroup.org/ ] , a think tank of 15 academic financial economists to which i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the whole financial system ) are sorely needed , and central bankers are the logical people to fill this role .
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end daca , he also acknowledged the moral case to be made for maintaining it , saying that he would be faced by a “ very , very hard ” choice . and even after the repeal was announced , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with heart and compassion . ” yet , apparently convinced that daca beneficiaries have taken jobs away from citizens , he concluded that the same heart and compassion were needed “ for unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ” sadly , in making this choice , the president has opted to turn away from the classic american vision engraved on the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem , which begins , “ give me your tired , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that it has immeasurably strengthened america , and has benefited tens of millions of newcomers , credo . .
they want oil and mining concessions government revenue to allocated be . trying to accomplish these valuable tasks while paying below-market salaries is penny wise but pound foolish . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need win their difficult battles for adequate resources . amlo ’s decision to lower the wages of public employees has already led many high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . those who are entitled to early retirement are taking it , rather than waiting for amlo ’s cut .
moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ° celsius ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists have identified as the threshold beyond which the most disastrous consequences of climate change would be triggered . clearly , help needs the third revolution industrial . creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups should be established in three main areas in order to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation . to drive down the cost of renewable energy at least to that of fossil-fuel energy within a decade would be searched by comprising a group of committed governments , the coalition of first .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour is hard to beat . at the stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , march 27 , more than 120 people in nearly a billion countries to do something about global warming by switching off their lights for an hour demonstrated their desire . . in a show of official solidarity , the lights also went out at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from the opera house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york ’s empire state building , london ’s big ben , paris ’s eiffel tower , and the skylines of both hong kong and las vegas . earth is surely one of the most successful publicity thought up stunts what ever else it may be . first organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 by the local chapter of the world wildlife fund , its popularity and the level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates has exploded in recent years – to the point that there is barely a corner of the earth that the campaign has n’t touched .
nation-states cooperating on trade a loose confederation is as much europe as the uk needs has been that . is essentially the british point of view . the free-trade area that cameron now apparently wants joined the european community . , but britain . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never diminished and was evident in cameron ’s speech . britain was only in defined areas european law even the supremacy , and long after many others had done so . the court of european of justice in a passing shot could not be supported in his speech .
of carbon dioxide , the main greenhouse gas responsible for climate change , which causes about 150,000 premature deaths annually and threatens pervasive risks this century and beyond is also the main source . is coal-fired power . the coal industry in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned the nearly 700 % growth in per capita income since 1990 , billions of people escape . has helped . to be sure . but burn more coal that , greater risk in countries is human health . research for the global commission on the economy and climate last year calculated that particulate matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economy – in 2010 . estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low - to middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population .
but post-modern democracies overwhelming seems everywhere . sometimes this desire . and there are always more wings , forgotten tomorrow is today 's hysteria-generating pop group . . ; embraced a pop culture of rapidly passing fads . this can be dangerous , because it 's how weighty no matter , basing decisions on whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails in politics . the trend of fuels , and both there 's the call for more referenda . . the most part snapshots is referenda .
she could , perhaps , say “ message for president obama ” if she were sharing an open letter , but otherwise … the best subject line says what the message is about and signals the desired response : “ invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” or , “ investment proposal for your consideration , ” or , “ serve as a reference ? ” unfortunately , i get lots of messages headlined , “ update . ” unless i know the person ’s name , i might not even know what company it ’s about .
things turn might have changed currently afoot . india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , has recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . have taken note of the arrival of raghuram rajan as chief economist in the finance ministry is the world economists . a superstar academic researcher , a brilliant writer on political economy , and the imf a economist former chief is rajan . but it is far from obvious that sonia gandhi , president of the indian national congress and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda .
we must abandon popper ’s tacit assumption that political discourse aims at a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . the pursuit of truth required is is a strong commitment . ; the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure open society . we introduce the rules of new for political discourse need . these can not be identi­cal to scientific method , but they should be similar in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria on which political views are to be judged . politicians will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only if the public cares about the truth and punishes politicians when it catches them in deliber­ate deception .
do so badly make indian guys , why ? the explanations range from the anthropological to the borderline racist : indians do n’t have the genes , the build , the stamina , the climate , whatever . running tracks , equipment , financial resources , structural structural explanations and lack of training facilities : is there . we are a developing country , it is said ; after all , it is not just your eye against his , your legs against hers , but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer ’s bow . but those rationales wo n’t do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in the medals .
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for a new american century ( pnac ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . and , after winning in 2000 for presidency , bush one of his top two security priorities declared iraq . . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the 25 signatories of the pnac founding statement of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . soon enough , the bush administration with promoting the idea that iraq had weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive evidence became obsessed . . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that , “ we do n’t know with any precision how much we do n’t know ” about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
by the revolution itself , the greatest difference between 2009 and 1979 was created . r evolutions give birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . was administration and political mobilization charge of a narrow ruling stratum is the iranian leadership formed after the revolution . in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of this political class has changed drastically . has gradually to the military-security groups , from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged , i lost power . is the elite of clerical .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been in an un@@ controlled military escal@@ ation an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define the events and trends about his best commentators as in previous years . it 's that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come if this year 's selection of one common theme is there . this point importance , but we should not survive .
research shows that many girls around the world – and especially those in the global south – are simply not prepared for menarche ; education can help . finally , we need solutions on facts , that are based . . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . the effect may be dramatic when programs rigorous research are developed . . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed school because they did n’t have access to clean sanitary products .
have long banks are vulnerable to self-@@ fulfilling confidence crises in the absence of a credible lender of last resort . , i understood . , economists . doubt are , and in greece types that lender can be monetary or fiscal . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral . and stand behind its banks has the wherewithal . is the state of greek . if depositors were not greek banks pull their funds . rushing , these circumstances would be surprising .
russia , almost entirely dependent on revenues from its energy resources , is a “ one crop economy ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , and his cyber attacks on the us and others , though intended to make russia look great again , merely worsen the country ’s long-term prospects . in the short run , however , declining countries often take more risks and are thus more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . this has created a dilemma of policy . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition on the use of force by states to seize territory from their neighbors .
require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis will preventing the eu from falling apart . greece needs both money and reforms – rapidly and within the eurozone and the eu . as a failed state and economy , even berlin , brussels governments can not live with greece . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all parties involved – and europe most of all . it can ultimately end only with a renewed bailout of greece or with europe ’s plunge into disaster .
indeed , china ’s rise has provided a new orbit for many countries around the world – particularly developing and emerging economies . and indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic skill across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative hegemonic force – one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage or moralizing about democracy and human rights . trump ’s presidency provides china with new opportunities to cement its role as a provider of investment and all manner of infrastructure and assistance to a host of countries eager to develop . is likely to force the us into playing catch-up with a china left almost unfettered in its continued efforts to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vital , economically and politically , to its strategic interests is his unilateralist approach . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill the vacuum as well .
austin – living in a city turns you into a cannibal . the metaphor who considered cities a pit of human corruption , jean-jacques rousseau preferred , at least , . rousseau was so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that he “ would rather see men grazing on meadow grass than devouring each other in cities . ” the countryside of the suffering inures people . , and as townspeople crowd together , their capacity for compassion toward others atrophies , urbanization . who people to satisfy their appetites , sacrifice one another . are ready . is urbanites .
looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , an annual growth rate of 8 % ( compared to the 10 % rate of the past decade ) , and a gradual increase of consumption to 50 % of gdp , would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . in dollar terms , sur@@ sur@@ sur@@ passes that of the us . would be chinese in this scenario . the question at the start of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy if this scenario does not play out . if apple ’s recent guidance points to an across-the-board , indefinite reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers be able to serve as the sole engine of the global economy for yet another decade ? this role fill partly , would n't any other country ?
at least four “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , and three of them plague china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many emerging economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and long-term lending . but china it a net lender to the rest of the world , and a currency mismatch , thanks to its large meets reserves does n't . unlike many emerging economies . but china has not avoided the third mismatch , between debt and equity : the credit-to-gdp ratio doubled over the last decade , from about 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . nor can policymakers afford to ignore the fourth mismatch – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and the relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for investors – which has contributed to speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality .
investment in india could grow rapidly with a target of 20 gw of solar generating capacity by 2020 . the events of the past 15 months – starting with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by the violence in north africa and the tragedy in japan – confront the world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and the promise and progress of clean energy . in recent decades , europe energy modernization for a force of driving has been observed . . such leadership will be needed to help the economic , environmental , and security benefits of renewable energy capture in the years ahead . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system , and to creative policies in support of that goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory .
even in quotas and tariffs absence , trade can be impeded by subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping legislation , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . intellectual property , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights , and requirements of local content , infant industries , for example it protectionist barriers comes dreaming . , when , human ingenuity seems to know . that all japanese vcr imports enter the country through poitiers , a town hundreds of miles from the nearest significant shipping port , the french government requested in october 1982 . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 .
washington , dc – to defeat populism requires coming to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result in a government losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually strengthen their chances of being re-elected by making wilder and more impossible promises – and by causing more economic damage . following most powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
has since made every effort to design instruments that protect against price fluctuations , to transform private debt into tradable financial securities , and to gain access to speculative markets is the sector of financial . but these efforts were conducive to fraud and delinquency , and thus spurred a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , in asia in 1997 , and in russia in 1998 – as well as a recession in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . emerged in the last quarter of the twentieth century : a strong incentive to use debt to prop up demand , and a shift toward financing public debt through private institutions at market prices , under fighting inflation pretext is two developments other destabilizing . the global financial system with liquidity generated by private banking activities that the real economy were un@@ linked transactions . has improved public-debt burdens . is these trends . global liquidity world gdp value amounted to twice . as a result .
to ensure faster delivery of projects , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by 15 % , and a major projects were created for prioritization planning processes . established a cost-@@ review program . is the united kingdom . and chile ’s national public investment system evaluates all proposed public projects using standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . additional opportunities for savings – to the tune of $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . to accelerate approvals and land acquisition , structure contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and improve collaboration with contractors is a huge scope . is there . in australia , the state of new south wales cut approval times by 11 % in just one year .
you soon will able to be . other categories include business ( with entities such as employers , industries , and employees ) , biology , space flight , and many more , and include representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are connected . most things do n’t exist in isolation . they have complex relationships to other things , and by representing that information using verbs – for example , “ the company that google acquired ” vs. “ the company that google competes with ” – we can represent the world more accurately . we search responses more meaningful , and this means .
the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to maintain a certain proportion of women – up to 60 % . frustration was born this proposed mandate . issued a call to voluntary action , the president viviane re@@ ding commission vice european . corporations to sign up for gender balance goals of 40 % female board membership , reding invited . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit with its own list of “ board-ready women . ”
cambridge – at the beginning of classes every autumn , i tease my students with the following question : is it better to be poor in a rich country or rich in a poor country ? in@@ conclusive debate considerable is generally supported by the question . for which there is a definitive answer , the question a more structured and limited version but we can cross . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after iran 's second leader most powerful its targeted killing . to us , growing challenges interests elsewhere in the world a time would occur and this shift .
she saved because she retire wanted enough money . since 2007 , the prospect of might make her put even more money aside low interest rates continuing . alternatively , low interest rates could push her ( or her pension fund ) to buy risky long-maturity bonds . such a move might thus set her up for a fall when interest rates eventually rise these bonds are already aggressively priced , i given . . the process of the unemployment problem adding a pension crisis . be may be america .
certainly , the zambians ’ achievement can not compete with the intervention in libya or the drama of the arab spring . and yet , what happened in zambia is related to those developments – and thus relevant everywhere . what made zambia ’s election so important is that the challenger won . indeed , he who might reasonably have been tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the result , really wanted to keep his job , she defeated a laugh . . be taken for granted are n't . after all , power smooth transitions .
russia ’s diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria . its use of hard power won the civil war for president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , showing how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military force – witness the utter destruction of aleppo – can be a game-changer . in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey and the kurds , and israel and iran , it has been red . , however but . do nothing to create a new regional order will a dialogue with various sides maintain has enabled russia . . as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east .
foreign capital flowed in once again with the external debt trimmed by rescheduling . buy with eight sovereign defaults in the last two centuries 100-year bonds from the country were willing . , investors . as long as the international environment remained benign , political honeymoon domestic , investor enthusiasm lasted . but when inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step in once again , closing the external funding gap with a stunning $ 50 billion loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . but the external funding the reforms demanded by the imf bristle began was not a temporary phenomenon .
furthermore , as mgi has discussed , you have distributional adverse reactions fewer . could to stimulate private demand . proponents of helicopter money – directly crediting citizens with central bank funds , or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities – rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting money directly into the hands of those who will spend it . in a measured way , heading off the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap , you raise inflation . may also be helicopter-money program sized . they need to move interest rates back toward historical norms for the opening give central banks might be the boost to demand . this could take that might be forming and ease pressures on institutional investors who are struggling to find the yield they need to meet their insurance and pension commitments , bubbles of incipient assets air .
this followed two visits he made to haiti over the past 18 months and a donor ’s conference he sponsored in april that sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . ban took an active role in the gaza crisis more recently . he has regularly defended the palestinians ’ rights to a state , but he also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks on southern israel . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to the warfare and requested that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . he also visited the un compound in the center of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing .
according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , though the volatility of capital flows has increased worldwide , it is higher in emerging market economies than in advanced economies . boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but they are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . moreover , the spillover effects of advanced economies ’ monetary policies extend beyond financial shocks . emerging economies are also suffering from the effects of developed countries ’ external imbalances – particularly the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus . in the last few years , the deficit economies of the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy – have undertaken massive external adjustments , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large surpluses .
first , the unrivaled dominance of egypt ’s military , and the unlikelihood of a split in its leadership , makes any extensive violence untenable , especially given that the egyptian state ’s fight against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s significantly weakened jihadist groups ’ operational assets in the country . they 'll inevitably opt to participate in domestic politics through organized structures and processes , but by passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization , i be carried . may now be second , the powerful forces of political islam . . no political player with strategic insight can prolonged impasse afford 35 years old people under more than 45 million . finally , which favors compromise and conciliation , its agrarian character remains despite the significant demographic and economic changes in egypt during the last four decades . but to that they have failed for six decades , answer the vexing question . , have : will even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term .
a factor that contributed to their demise was a shift in thinking that transformed the conflict between east and west away from one that emphasized economic systems . instead , it was the contrast between totalitarianism and respect for rights that completely discredited the oppressive regimes linked to moscow and helped to bring them down . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to a multi-racial democracy in the early 1990 ’s was a further advance for rights . but during the current decade , seemed to turn against the rights cause was also ethnic cleansing in genocide and ex-yugoslavia in rwanda stained him . . are also supporting those in other countries engaged in similar practices limiting themselves to authoritarian rule at home is powerful states such as russia and china . of lesser powers such as iran and venezuela , the same is true .
or is being met by products partly . , supply chains may now as many significant international links as domestic ones have . these linkages the proliferation is lower , and technological innovation further both producers and consumers reduces entry obstacles . . these relationships must based on a cooperative approach that is deemed credible , function effectively based . for the longer-term health of both individual participants and the overall system . if not , they growth welfare and a lower level risk resulting . . this is why the current confrontation between the us and china has raised fears of serious damage , particularly if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a wider “ trade war . ”
it will have to agree to common rules , if britain wants to do business with others . once it is out in the cold , it will have to decide with which economic bloc to align , and then accept that bloc ’s rules . this about sovereignty or satrapy is not . . it is simply a question of whether we would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west , or european food and agricultural standards over those of the us . it 'll find isolation only grief if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty .
broaden the base lower the rates would be discussed in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among the major economies . structural reforms ages of retirement higher and labor-market flexibility focus in europe . governments , financial institutions , and households deleveraging is the economic recovery sluggish one major cause . placing pressure on government budgets means less tax revenue and payments more requirements but sluggish growth . to rebuild their balance sheets quickly enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts , enable and households for banks . would be the gamble .
ask if he would have supported the attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 , more directly , bucerius later . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister had been a member of the resistance . thadden himself , however , would n't his sister have fought . , suggesting avoided providing direct answer . . nonetheless , dahrendorf was adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided by the voters , rather than the courts , which had declared the communist party illegal . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( which had undoubtedly been agreed in advance by east german leaders ) about the exclusion of west germany ’s communists from the debate .
in the wake of the financial crisis long-term investment is not required . includes a regulatory regime . , liquidity remains limited . it 's being funneled into new projects , although 2008 level has returned to public infrastructure financing . . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure – investments that are considered relatively safe , because they entail little or no construction risk and have demonstrated their potential to generate stable cash revenues . in order to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose the creation of an asset class that we call “ buy-and-hold equity " ( bhe ) . sit between traditional equity and debt , with able to hold it for 15 years or investors would be the class of asset .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . but the clock be running out on his prolonged misrule appears following a recent 64 % devaluation of the currency . lukashenko was forced by the removal of russian oil-price subsidies in 2009 to beg , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy from collapsing . he tricked the international monetary fund into extending a $ 3.4 billion loan , promising freer elections in december 2010 – only to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown when faced with an adverse election result and the largest protests his regime had ever seen . a high price for loans that are , in any case , insufficient to save the regime was a line of harder . is now russia .
in its current fight with google , for example , china ’s government appears to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintain the old thought control . the internet leaks like a sieve with persistence , thankfully , , but the great progress of china ’s economy over the past 30 years is something all chinese celebrate . but the jailing of liu also demonstrates in the starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights is flowing to the rest of world alongside the mass of chinese goods . indeed , it is becoming increasingly clear that china opened its economy only to maintain the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , not to respect and enhance the lives of ordinary chinese .
given these mounting concerns , implementation risks are now being presented in a different light . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted that upcoming reforms would be carried out with surprising speed . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that , “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” thin air come out . do n't . is these views . to be underscoring the link between leadership power and the pace of reforms seems like a master tactician , liu .
to roma minorities , that are home . , many european union member countries contains a similar picture , though on a smaller scale , . a wide socioeconomic disparity exists between europe 's majority population and roma , or " gypsies " , many of whom live in extreme poverty . to become a permanent drag on european prosperity , which would be a tragedy for roma and non-roma threatens alike . remains unchanged , this persistent poverty . deserves the attention of urgent of government leaders as they shape the policies of an enlarged eu is the 7-9 million roma living on the continent the situation . most vulnerable minority of the continent 's fastest growing is roma .
it to be this way does not been found . . to help find a solution , we have conducted a pest ( political , economic , sociocultural , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects . the main lesson the government to ensure and security order is up . is on the political front . within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers to address internal security matters . but where its actions are inadequate , it is the right and responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene .
needs training could appeal to large parts of the population in all member countries , and ideas on development research and in particular four months less is the parliament elections european . pro-european forces need to campaign for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown and – most importantly – for a cohesive and aggressive policy to address europe ’s long-term structural problems . become a reality will dominated by populist forces . , should they fail . the european disintegration of a slow process the beginning and this could mark .
when asked whether america was prepared to become the world ’s second-largest economy , they were reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility of the us becoming “ number two ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician . must adjust , to varying degrees , to who office put them fulfill the expectations , elected officials everywhere . have a special obligation to think the unthinkable and the unspeakable speak is on the other hand , intellectuals . they prepare developments for the population consider all possibilities , even disagreeable ones are thought . .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire economic sectors at a breathtaking rate , has been called the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland – and rightly so . how we produce , distribute , and consume , the innovation of the pace scope will transform in the coming years . we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity to maximize the benefits . human capital is vital to an economy ’s success , and mexico is no exception .
for example , payroll-tax cuts – which would enable small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – might require reducing rents . in fact , italy ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . is levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risking their own capital to launch new businesses must pay roughly 50 % of their start-up costs in taxes is a tax of 12.5 % . similarly , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to about 2 % of total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % – and the government intends to slash it further . and landlords while unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes , pay 15 % tax . .
and though thousands – perhaps tens of thousands – of protesters have gathered in front of the supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for the pis in the 2015 election . current polls show that the pis ’s popularity has risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , civic platform . this suggests that while poles may not agree with the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk much for free courts – or for liberal-democratic principles generally . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński can now declare that , “ the european commission will not break poland ’s will regarding the completion of reforms … if we do not reform the judiciary , other reforms will have little sense , because sooner or later they would be negated , withdrawn by the courts that we have now . ” kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely not be able to act in time .
tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” and so on , as if the three musketeers had been interviewed by an oral historian . there is also some routine praise for the two presidents they worked with , george w. bush and barack obama , and a reprise of their frustration with people who did not see the world their way , and obstructed their solutions , like sheila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and various pesky members of congress . is not so much in the story as in their policy recommendations for the future , which cover the ground of same as their earlier books is the main interest . it reach consensus on quite a radical program is able . is noteworthy . . and the states of united should cause three proposals in particular . .
unfavorable more in western europe is toward trump sentiment . only 6 % of respondents think he to hold his current office , and 91 % regard him as arrogant is certified . in germany . that the us and the uk have a special relationship now that he is in office , only 50 % still believe . , and think card is 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has been postponed indefinitely . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see the us favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , which are both led by populist right-wing governments .
in the sixteenth century , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its navy . conventional wisdom has always held that the state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age it may be the state ( or non-state ) with the best story that wins . it how measured the balance of power , much less how to develop successful survival strategies , it is clear . , today . in his inaugural address in 2009 , president barack obama stated that “ our power grows through its prudent use ; our security emanates from the justness of our cause , the force of our example , the tempering qualities of humility and restraint . ” shortly thereafter , secretary of state hillary clinton said , “ america can not solve the most pressing problems on our own , and the world can not solve them without america .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy when , evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he said that “ france would be glad if someone could force the parliament ” to reform . the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably produces corruption and inefficiency – problems with which china is now wrestling . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that allow them to set policies that are sustainable in the long term while safeguarding the democratic process itself . to understand and accept tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative shows difficult reforms in eastern europe in the consensus of public .
he help my grandfather from the banks , which had already repossessed one-third of the land save the family farm stay in nebraska had . he came to think of the farm not as a subsistence operation , but as a family business : my father made most important was in his mindset . he that the university was developing , she turned to the university of nebraska , where he had received his undergraduate degree , and acquired hybrid corn and other improved seeds . . then he tracked inputs and weather conditions , which was rarely done at that time . my father realized that he could n’t go it alone , and that he would need better access to financing .
it also means applying strict co2 emission limits to new passenger cars , public transport , and commercial sea and air transport . and it the electric-vehicle continent first , our car industry means making europe together . . second become a truly circular economy minimizes waste that , take the lead in the responsible use of resources europe must . energy products or processed in the eu , today is eight billion tons of materials . only 0.6 billion tons – a mere 7.5 % – originate from recycling .
the global council brought together experts and practitioners a group to help infuse substance into the foreign-policy discussions leading up to the us election , including by preparing a public discussion paper has recognizing this trend . from my perspective as the group 's only european member , the overarching message should be that the us must conceive of itself not as “ the indispensable power , " as it now does , but as “ the indispensable partner . " the us to re-conceive its role in the world will require change such . ; this is not merely a matter of semantics . for but that created the liberal world order , the payoff would be essential but . the key to success will be america 's ability to retain the best – and abandon the worst – of that most american of notions : exceptionalism .
outsiders misinterpreted this system – “ built on a clearly defined scheme , ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-line royal legitimacy at the top ” and “ the scholar gentry to administer affairs of state ” – as a recipe for stagnation . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply a “ restoration ” of the success the country enjoyed before nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted its harmonious system . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita suggest that china ’s economic “ retardation ” started well before its encounter with the west . between 1500 and 1870 , per capita income barely moved from $ 600 , while the uk ’s quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) , and even spain ’s doubled . china ’s political stability and relative absence of violence were thus achieved at the expense of economic dynamism , not in harmony with it .
this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . promote security and development and across northwest africa is been confirmed . , morocco . open economy , and balanced relations its political stability are increasingly the us and europe the regional interests aligned . moreover , morocco is a ally of longstanding us and . such and complex dangerous region cultivating a natural partner . would have done the west .
far more complex is especially in basic sciences , women faculty members the issue . i suspect that here the problem reflects the way women and men fundamental differences the life of a microcosm approach science . most of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven types , but in their scientific careers , they display two types of typically male behavior . a compulsion to completely trivial facts about science establish be the first . is the first . seem to think that it is in our species male members , but i 'm not sure as i grow older .
this , together with the prominence of the advisory board ( which includes well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , a brookings institution fellow ) and the sensitivity of minority rights in general , combined to give the project national , regional , and international notice . so far , syria 's authorities have not reacted to the project of tharwa . it in the game for this still too early 's probably . . changes to visions produce can help that . , but the project seems to represent the type of activity . of this , i be aware . could be found in the government of syrian .
that of the pre-crisis years , which relied on indifference to where growth came from , how sustainable it was , and who was benefiting from it , the flawed economic model is growth . . if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , it must be to start asking the right questions . every new bilateral agreement , every globalization chapter , should be measured against new criteria . how sustainable will the benefits of macroeconomic be spread ? will they who become economically displaced is dignified opportunities genuine development facilitate ?
cambridge – in the euphoric moment immediately following the collapse of the soviet union , few would have guessed that ukraine – an industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural resources – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , managed almost to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity ) over the next three decades . following most powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
now consider other major emerging markets . here currency appreciation is already taking place , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 , and in some cases it can already be said to be excessive ( for example , in brazil ) . can their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , like they did before the global financial crisis resist upward pressure . of course is these countries . private funds that flow into these countries of accumulated reserves , treasury securities via investment . are recycled us . : the result is , of course , paradoxical . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks undertake this peculiar financial intermediation , which represents a major cost , as the yield of private funds is higher than that of reserves ?
outside financing get could not get mortgages off their balance sheets , and the asset-backed commercial paper market came to a standstill . how since banks had to husband their resources and could not trust their counterparties , inter@@ bank lending is at the heart of the financial system . came is the final blow . of institutions than ever before , inject an unprecedented amount of money had is central banks . that than any since world war ii , more severe . made the crisis . . followed by some of the new credit instruments and practices , a contraction period must now be credit expansion .
that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come , it 's if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . trump ’s biggest problem is that the other signatories to the 2015 nuclear agreement – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he has withdrawn the united states , have remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the agreement and to doing everything possible to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to adhere to it . the european signatories have established a special mechanism to facilitate trade and business with iran at the risk of us retaliation , while russia and china have expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the history of the western alliance that america ’s european allies have joined forces with its rivals .
to compare , the average american pays 15 cents . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people are paying some of the highest prices for energy . solar-power technology : an effective solution to this problem exists . according to african progress panel estimates , poor african households would save $ 58 a year , on average , by installing solar panels – money that they could spend on education , health , and productive investment . would benefit considerably from tapping this large new market of course , also providing those panels .
has accelerated in recent decades , as a select few have acquired an ever-larger share of total wealth and political influence , but has been centuries unfolding . is this process . today , just 100 corporations produce 71 % of greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . are responsible for around 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % produce 10 % of emissions is the people of ten % 's wealthiest . political leaders have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere , those who are destroying our planet stand is unwilling . . even the ipcc included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways for keeping global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
15 % of us are gdp . , imports . multiply 0.15 by 0.10 ( the hypothesized tariff rate ) , and you get 1.5 % . the number 1 % drops below . allow away from more expensive imported goods for some substitution . and the fed can offset by raising more slowly for interest rates if growth slows because of the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs . do likewise may be foreign central banks .
may prefer this course to arresting and trying terrorism suspects is one reason . is revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence in public ability . and yet simply revoking citizenship does not solve the problem of leaving at large a suspected terrorist , who may then carry out an attack elsewhere – unless , as with sakr , he is killed . the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance between individual rights , including the right to citizenship , and the public good . suppose that the government gets it right 19 times out of 20 when it relies on suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . if there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen was made stateless , there was the case with the decisions made by the government of uk in 2013 .
as are shut down and fossil-fuel plants old , they should be replaced by clean power generation on a competitive basis , for example through renewable-energy auctions . stop financing new coal-fired plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines should be capital-exporting countries like china and japan . , and china and india , in particular , should stop building power plants new co@@ al-@@ fired at home . the costs of renewable energy systems , although as cooking and the new hydrogen economy , electric vehicles , downstream uses , will compete firms . the private sector should compete to deliver low-cost solutions , and governments should set emissions limits . and business government together should to drive costs even lower , finance and development new research . .
what the mikta countries share increasing growth rapid economic outside their borders are . they are also models of economic dynamism and innovation with a substantial stake in the way post-wwii global institutions and rules should be reshaped , they have development problems . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of the bics ( the brics , minus russia ) . prove too unwieldy to be workable may be observed in international politics in the soup of alphabet . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges .
it close the output gap , downward pressure continued on demand leaving was too small . . much of the “ stimulus ” merely financed increased spending by state governments that would have been paid for in other ways . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt than to gdp . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policy , ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate extremely low for an extended period of time . with the resulting increase in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending , the portfolio investors shift into equities and other assets was is the goal .
in denmark , my own country , economic readiness the issue is not . indeed , danish voters have seen most of the benefits of euro membership already , due to the danish krone ’s unchanged link first to the dm , then to the euro , over the past 15 years . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on a failure by the euro ’s supporters to explain the difference between this uncontested policy and full euro participation . denmark may be necessarily to join to vote is last . as a result . they prefer to see the euro as a cap stone in constructing the single market rather than as a stepping stone to closer union : despite the different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement . that north korea must first move toward denuclearization before any kind of economic assistance is offered , both the states of united and south korea conservatives may argue . but there is no reason why international efforts to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . we these goals can not be pursued simultaneously need not suppose . . on the contrary , it may be impossible to win north korea ’s assent to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change .
they say what , the front and its voters mean . , and no one should doubt . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem able to address . rather than strengthening pan-european solidarity , economic distress a huge conflict distribution has led . . what once to a face-off between debtors and creditors , i 'm given . equals was a relationship . . may irreparably harm the soul of the union and the entire european project characterizes this conflict . , i distrust . is the mutual .
the larger the market , the cost advantage larger . moreover , larger scale are also consumers more valuable produced , information goods . the version with the largest market share becomes the standard ; it is the easiest to figure out how to use , the easiest to find support for , and the one that works best with other products ( which are , of course , designed to work best with it ) . in the section of the " new economy " dominated by producers ' economies of scale and consumers ' economies of scope , a firm that establishes a lead in market share gains a nearly overwhelming advantage . unless its competitors take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly steps -- like those taken by microsoft against netscape , its rival in the internet browser market , by pouring a fortune into creating its internet explorer and then distributing it for free -- the first firm to establish a dominant market position will reap high profits as long as its sector of the industry lasts .
that how its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions is . to create safe and legal paths for refugees to reach europe is the most urgent priority . this must be accepted every vulnerable migrant does not possible . . but it should implement organized ways to facilitate their entry , and be more systematically generous in determining to admit how many should be the eu . . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by enabling it to vet applicants fully ) .
citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have changed as dramatically as have their responses to poll questions . 40 % say working with others in their community is the most important thing that they can do ; feel the quality of life there is excellent or good connected to their communities in three-quarters of americans . opinions in the public of american distribution would suggest american politics and political institutions in recent years . after 2008 , the downturn of economic was exacerbated . is the situation . as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system was designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or as a moving picture , telling us not just where we are but where we have been and where we may be headed . it a difference of enormous is a distinction . . following iran 's second leader most powerful the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
innovation can also drive pollution abatement . for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter transport , leverages the city ’s well-known innovative capacities while addressing congestion . central government should subsidized what while providing fair access to services among residents advance pollution ab@@ ment , initiatives . a strategy to air pollution tackle the third pillar is awareness . this mean inundating people with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on can lead to desensitization that move , the contrary does not necessarily necessarily affected . .
perhaps , but conventional solutions have proved un@@ work@@ able so far . , even disastrous . a overall agreement for abdullah 's proposals based on crown prince could be launched after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians . the most urgent priority de-escalation , stabilization and political consolidation within palestinian society is process . in the meantime . the key to achieving this may be a saudi protectorate . it may be the only choice both palestinians and israelis left everything else having already failed .
first , as well as member states for the system of banking must be supported by the european financial stability facility . this would allow sovereign debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . despite this task , because any amount used for recapitalizing or liquidating banks would reduce the amount needed by governments , the package of rescue the size could remain the same . would be a fundamental improvement that would help restore confidence , in the hands of national authorities the banking system under european supervision bringing . and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of the rescue operation .
he may be able to against a government that has earned wary respect but is not much liked , young man alienated . , i galvanize many . on the contrary . second governments can become arrogant , careless , and too focused on their own supporters without opposition effective and responsible . in this case , leaders of the conservative party ’s far-right component are likely to think that they can dispense with offering disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , anyway . the uk will the union of european face a referendum over its membership , third . while no one knows the position corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some of the trade-union bosses who support him , might decide that the eu is a rich man ’s club , thereby precluding the much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership .
the bailout was brought about by aig ’s large losses on derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players such as goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , so the government provided substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . at this point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , accept a discount on the amount owed to them . when some of these parties refused , the government backed down and financed aig ’s payment of all of its derivative obligations in full . the us government felt that it had a weak hand , because it was not prepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations .
that it has no interest in renewing its control over the gaza strip , israel has long decided . in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes things clearer . a regime of completely hostile is ruled . , gaza . for at civilian targets in the country of continuing rocket fire cross-border attacks , israel would feel free . at last , the world must recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s peace process have been completely dashed .
technological innovation and demographics are now a headwind , not a tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering ca n’t save the day . the hundred or so years after the us civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies is the history of the aberrant period . life expectancies rose dramatically , and very productive more in human life . than doubled over the following 50 years , with economies growing much faster than in previous centuries , the global population grew over 50 % between 1800 and 1900 . growth began to of the developed western economies , and us president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that supercharged activity , i slow . by the end of the 1970s .
the core of japan ’s political inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because the parties ’ divisions are actually devoid of any consistent ideological and policy differences . include conservatives and liberals , defense hawks and doves is both parties . the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as an ldp secretary general , is an exemplar of this confused legacy . are slim , unfortunately , the chances that the dpj will evolve into a responsible party of government in the foreseeable future , or that the ldp will reform . until some crisis forces a realignment of political parties along ideological and policy lines , i 'm chronic and pointless political trench warfare . seems condemned . , japan .
and because his suspension of parliament has outraged rebel conservatives who had previously balked at bringing down their own government , a no-confidence vote now a chance of greater of success stands . but bringing down the government would not be sufficient to stop a no-deal brexit . the motley crew of rebels also would need to support the formation of a caretaker government that would seek a brexit extension , call a general election , and perhaps also legislate for a second referendum . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline closet bre@@ x@@ ite@@ er socialist , leading such a government insists . that would require conservative rebels , opposition liberal democrats , and also mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – a tall order .
revenue service internal usually vigilant us to play this arrangement . asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based on research and development conducted exclusively in the us ( most of it underpinned by federal government funding ) . the us taxed should therefore be these profits . curiously , the irs is choosing not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay tax on its profits from us-sourced ip returns . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee for allowing it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a tiny tax to the irs .
each one of them has gained ( or maintained ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . the pekos ’ political style has been enabled by modern news media , which , scrambling for audience share , simplify and sensationalize issues . the most exposure statements and positions antagonistic this produces the electoral polarization fed on which , and gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage . . undoubtedly effective is the political strategy .
there 's nothing funny when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to complex policies that involve science and technology , but a child coming , this suggestion may be funny . . britons had their say during the summer , for example , on whether they want gene-spliced , or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields and food . to gauge public opinion in advance of a decision scheduled for later this year on whether to allow commercial planting of gm crops , the british government sponsored ( at great expense ) a series of public discussions around the country . additional public meetings hundreds held local governments and other organizations . the head of the british debates ' organizing committee , professor malcolm grant , called them a " unique experiment to find out what ordinary people really think once they 've heard all the arguments . "
these parties many is financing . in fact . that capitalists would sell the ropes with which they would be hanged , lenin once said . allow putin to he will destroy the eu buy the votes . appear willing . , european governments today . there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders who want to return to business as usual with russia , and academic apologists for the soviet union who , 25 years after its collapse , see a chance for vindication . and , with public opinion polls revealing that a significant minority of europeans are falling in line with putin 's rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato be making real headway seems .
in germany alone , construction projects per day of more than 75 hectares claim average . . organisms inhabiting the soil decimates for example . , and the liberal use of synthetic fertilizer changes their structure : inappropriate agricultural practices are also to blame . it takes to wash it away ; it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form . at the same time , global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels is growing , in turn driving up the value of land – a fact that has not escaped international investors ’ attention . according to a world bank estimate , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – land that would be used by millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous people – has been affected by large-scale investment .
that a war with iran would reignite the american economy , bro@@ der will the iranian threat containing , judge the president by his success . . that is a strange idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded the us economy ’s weaknesses . only as a response to a blatant and immediate iranian challenge to vital us interests , such as a major terrorist attack , an invasion of an ally in the gulf , or disruption of the free flow of middle east oil to the west is plausible . is an american war against iran . cross any of these red lines is too astute . is the regime of iranian . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at putting pressure on defiant states .
provide for countercyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating an economy in a downturn does n't . is still the economic framework of the imf 's . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf 's distorted accounting frameworks ­ - what it does and does not count as expenditures - continues to impede the investments required to modernize public-sector enterprises and to put a major roadblock in the way of land reform . for example , it sells through a mortgage for the land , when , it is treated as the debt transaction when the government borrows to buy land . his voice will no doubt be influential , while supposed to intervene in the day-to-day management of the country is the germany president . it germany should the record look and take pause . is here . .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as us president , but questions about russia ’s interference in the election will not go away . do russian vladimir president , but one key question is often lost . it 's not hard to guess why putin preferred trump to his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton of course . but there is a difference between hoping for an outcome and going to great lengths – and incurring great risks – to help bring it about . in our view , the us intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by helping trump , the kremlin was advancing its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not entirely convincing .
moreover , projected to grow at an 8-8.5 % rate in the next fiscal year is the country . a marked , cost-free acceleration in growth could make no changes of budget . it the usually staid statistics department stole the thunder from this year 's budget , i say . is fair . . nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley 's budget succeeds on several fronts – not least in its alignment of vision and implementation . enhances the ease of doing business in india , while targeting better delivery mechanisms for welfare schemes , it advances a agenda of pro-growth the government 's vision .
it spent considerable resources to make itself attractive overseas , and he followed a diplomatic policy conciliatory toward britain . , but . after the failure of its imperialist greater east asia co-prosperity scheme of the 1930 ’s ( which had a soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and relied on strategic alliance with the us . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and third world solidarity used to facilitate allies built its military strength in its first decades but , after the exhaustion of the maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as taking down a retired member of the politburo standing committee , china ’s most powerful body . well on the way to hitting the carbon-intensity target established in 2010 , the authorities appear . , and carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since the beginning of this year . even some ghost towns are market forces being revived , and beginning to mitigate shadow-banking risks is regulatory reforms . . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to keep up the reform momentum . to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even tough bones ” – that is , overcome vested interests that are resisting change .
elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us interests a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've already been at an military escal@@ ation uncontrolled interest for decades after all , iran and the . projects asked the coming will define that 12 months . , its commentators as in previous years . it 's that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come if the selection of one common theme is there .
in keeping with the spirit of the times , governments introduce business criteria for measuring the efficiency -- and the " success , " more generally -- of public services . this means that they set performance targets , above all . that the proportion of each generation going to universities will be raised to 50 % in five years , or by next spring , street crime will be included . . , ministers say . waiting lists for hospital beds will be cut by one-third within two years . makes it appear that we can hold politicians accountable by establishing whether targets have been reached or not at long last is the governance method .
what he is the sole player is a game of soccer . has invented peru 's president alejandro toledo . he his scores of opponent aims so that . instead of the ball to win . this explains why , who unseat former president alberto fujimori led popular movement . is the man has been observed in least 7 % with more than half of his term left . . that marked fujimori 's administrations , dismantle the corruption . and end the reign of his crooked chief of intelligence , vladimiro montesinos assumed the planning presidency . , toledo . brought justice for words that the imagination of peruvians , who yearned to see criminal politicians captured . -- toledo claimed that he would send all dishonest officials to prison .
turn public opinion tide overnight , as happened to president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 may be a presidential debate mistake . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debate with carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory . another event that could turn the tables would be an “ october surprise ” associated with terrorism , which could switch the agenda from the financial crisis back to security , the republicans ’ stronger suit . senator ker@@ ra john ker@@ ra president bush defeat have helped . may 2004 shortly before the election . from bin laden ’s point of view , bush ’s policies were more useful for his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry ’s might have been .
i that no one has yet broached , see all this is practical turn . . , but . would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance into politics bring about the ideal solution to the problem of finding an heir for putin ? that search , after all , is threatening to divide the nation ’s elite . a man like lugovoi who truly represents what that elite stands for choose , so why ? two presidential candidates potential , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 let us .
their mythical tribe was great in some mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . to eliminate extreme poverty through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation , worldwide by 2030 is entirely dependent on continued economic growth . , sustainable development goal , the united nations . will severely harm the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help coal miners in west virginia , erecting trade barriers , digital mercantilism engaging , and generally undermining the world order liberal . that 's the benefits of globalization in a nostalgic protectionism will bear the weak . , but the strong will always manage .
some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . to be less like a market participant and more like a referee , regulator , and arbiter of economic and social priorities in the state requires others . without question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions developed . can not to do be counted . which alone , state involvement is also necessary . moreover , coordination problems in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities may be at different stages of development that are not easily or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly has the state of chinese .
but in the policy response , which has been painfully slow or non-existent , the economic urgency is not reflected . for example , egypt ’s fiscal deficit will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . the government ’s reduction of fuel subsidies last year was not followed by additional reforms , and the required tax increase was delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it . the egypt of all stakeholders almost political , as in the other arab countries in transition , the need for economic reform recognize .
this could very well happen , and yet . our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that among the nearly one-half that are reducing public expenditures , common adjustment measures include public-sector wage cuts or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and the targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . adopted without carefully examining their social impact is often these adjustment measures . how many poor children will suffer – or die – from lack of food and health care ? because poor children must work to supplement their family income , or because teachers are absent due to low wages , miss out education . will how many children ?
indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . has a large stake prevails in which scenario is the world . economically , political discontent surges , and germany integrate the refugees socially fails . : the first scenario is bleak . they could lead to violence from both sides and to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists . , any steps . if , in the worst case , a terrorist attack were to occur – especially one that could , in some way , be linked to refugees – the nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or horses – to charge into cairo ’s tahrir square and attack thousands of anti-government demonstrators was a classic “ military as government ” move . at this point , a democratic transition will play protecting a more active role for the army requires most likely . . what is clear is that the interest of the “ military as institution ” depends on the army ’s ability to establish much greater separation from the regime . successful political transitions are also helped if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own ” the protests and the resulting transition . in this respect , the fact that the demand for mubarak ’s immediate resignation originated from cairo ’s tahrir square rather than from the obama administration is a positive development .
they will be working in close cooperation with ugandan forces , at the same time . but does the uganda operation , following so closely on the libya intervention , herald a police role for the us whenever the un or the icc – which , lacking their own police force , rely on their members and interstate cooperation – judges it necessary ? given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in us courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to both international and domestic political attack . the constructive role the obama administration had proposed has exceeded . , however , us cooperation with the icc extent . to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement the potential of international criminal justice are increasingly container . , american policymakers .
so why do n't americans at rising revenue of their country 's , alarm feel better ? that most americans do not recognize what is going on is part of the reason that they do n't . to reach the top 1 % someday , 20 % more hope . , and that 19 % of americans think their incomes put them in the top 1 % of income distribution - . , one poll found . that those who succeed do so not through luck and corruption but through preparation and industry , and themselves , not the state should rely on individuals . . , you 'll be the faith in the core of american ideology and culture . these social democracy requires beliefs . are n't .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity . if we set our minds to it , we could be the first in human history to leave our children nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no biodiversity loss . that is the course that world leaders set when they met at the united nations in new york on september 25 to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to protecting the planet ’s biosphere and providing energy for all . they emerged from the largest summit in the un ’s history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the largest consultation the un has ever undertaken .
if privileged voices less are drowned while less polarizing . , it may be very smart if so the noisiest are often rewarded with a megaphone . if the algorithm does n’t do the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hateful and threatening speech at whomever they choose . be targeted may online harassment victims are particularly likely . . the object of conspiracy theories and intense harassment the target became in two weeks is the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , . many and even with their sense of security self-worth eroded , remove themselves from social media altogether , and victims of online harassment often self-censorship respond .
africans barely count in american politics . they do n't buy us products ; africans do n't vote . they are hungry and disease-ridden , simply poor . few rich countries the us do better . . i it in its capacity to lead is unique . , but it is unique in its neglect . , america is single . .
hence , as he put it in 1932 , there may be “ no escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except by direct state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” – which is what the obama administration is rightly doing . on the question of crash what caused , the debate more is . krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributes the crash to “ irrationality , ” which , as cochrane points out , is no theory . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . in my view , keynes ’s major contribution to economic theory was to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness of the basis of knowledge on which our estimates of prospective yield have to be made . ”
cape town – nowadays , people are too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . to take exceedingly challenging of which , i making the decision . , their options sometimes appear very exclusive . sometimes , however , economic interest moral rectitude presenting an opportunity that must not be missed , merge . . that is the case – from the perspectives of this archbishop and former finance minister – with the world ’s response to climate change . the moral imperative is indisputable , as the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature changes , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who have also benefited the least from the economic activities that cause it .
he was so well although us forget that he was no longer with us , his absence seemed like part of the show . , i mourned . on that day . abiding in each of us was the johnny that moved us all : the youth spent with a traveling act , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; the father , a character out of modiano , who , between bouts of drinking , pawned the gifts given to him by his abandoned son . and then there was the ’60s rocker with the eyes of a sad wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , the catcher in the rye mood , and a melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn him to live on the edge of every form of excess . with fake sweat and real glitz , an artist who , like a novelist , confessed as a way of lying , he felt the scene of french the consummate artist . hallyday was that watched american gis enter paris and that invented for itself an american ascendance , a generation the child .
it was not subject to financial crises of the type that we see regularly today , but of course , it was ups downs and subject . moreover , japan , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , full employment was capitalism in the decades of post-wwii . poverty had mass , and was mostly unknown job insecurity . the keys to that period of growth and happiness were a strong social welfare system and mainly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in all the world ’s big states . above high consumption and thus rapid growth would guarantee which , all developed the pursued policies economy designed to provide high wages . .
we are interested and associated , but not absorbed . ” that seems to reflect the stance – expressed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – that helped to set the stage for brexit . in future euro rescue operations , there would not be british participation . ; they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk in response to the euro crisis . solidarity ( at least the kind that costs money ) stopped at the english channel . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and on other governments in the future – to assure and account for the safety of protesters . natan sharansky said that this tactic – the west tracking and demanding accountability for the treatment of individual internal dissenters – helped break up the soviet union . in this crisis , the us president should form a united front with human rights groups , which can advise him exactly how to follow , sustain , and support those iranians who have been or may yet be arrested , or worse . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who support free assembly . that will be welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by the us , and to the opposition leaders and journalists languishing in us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in just such protest .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , combat corruption , and give russia a stake in better relations with the outside world . for similar reasons , russia and the union of european ties makes sense . there should also what the people of russian and russia have gone through over the past two decades be a understanding . . the trauma of trauma could lead to the emergence of extreme and potentially violent nationalism is a special place in the world . , and a country losing . should be treated as a major power , which means consultations on important global issues , russia .
but a consensus had emerged in brazil that a left party could neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s presidency did not challenge this view . the consensus may have reflected the success of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and the growth of brazil ’s middle class . whatever the case , for key leaders of the brazilian left , including rousseff , capitalism the solution , not the fundamental problem became part . . investors take all kinds of risks . rather , they are the business risks of a company that fails or a polity that implodes ; are n't on which the world bank and development agencies have focused , always the legal ones . in the biggest .
of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenue – and not just apple ’s . one big loser in this world will be the freight business ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . the transport need is reduced can be made , used , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home . and then be delivered to centralized processing centers do not need . . is recycled materials . made in those factories and to customers or to inventory centers , he shipped . need will not be products .
london – in the 1960 ’s , the green revolution – which included the development of high-yielding crop varieties , the expansion of irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production worldwide . but particularly in developing countries , which are affected most by crop shortages and food-price volatility , chronic hunger remains per@@ va@@ sive . the global human population to exceed nine billion is expected . by 2050 . means that all people have consistent , affordable access to the right nutrients , despite land and water limitations , climate change , and the growing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes achieving food security be easy will not be determined by these challenges .
indeed , for many years , domestic critics of erdoğan ’s government have been denouncing what they describe as the “ putinization ” of the regime . turkey , not the european union , making its presence the world felt is currently . . but may change rapidly is the course of history . turkey needs europe needs turkey as much in reality . europe is for turkey “ a principle of moderation ” and an enticement to remain democratic .
that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats , until they reach a crisis point indicates on the contrary experience . died than in combat last year of cancer in the us is more people . in fact , last year ’s 580,000 cancer deaths exceed the roughly 430,000 battle deaths , on average , in world war i , world war ii , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . cancer averages the spending of government approximately $ 4 billion per year . that roughly $ 718 billion the annual military budget of 0.5 % is just over . .
a journalist visiting the kingdom of saudi arabia recently asked me why five out of six students he interviewed at king saud university still believe that al qaida was not responsible for the attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon in america last year ? because i have run out of plausible explanations , it 's for me , increasingly frustrating . . , dealing with this question . i with what happened on that dark day , we reflected our distress . , i used to believe saudi complicity denial in the attacks . i hoped that we would have the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and start looking deep into our national psyche , asking the big question , " why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a way ? " we than we were after the attack to answering to this question , we ca n't find the nerve no closer . , so far .
moreover , of increasing concentration of wealth at the top very pronounced in many arab countries , the global phenomenon . has widened . , income inequality . top incomes in these countries have resulted largely from political patronage , rather than from innovation and hard work . the pattern was widespread , while was an extreme case of a regime a small clique of insiders furthering economic interests in tunisia . that is why a knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” prescription of more liberalization and privatization is inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . the centerpiece , not an afterthought in which , a clear political need for growth strategy is there .
but that no longer is the case . . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are not just about trade , but about america ’s departure from pax americana itself . to the post-war order than germany , which , like japan , owes its economic resurgence after 1945 to the rules-based trading system , few countries are connected . germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means that it is acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by major trading partners . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950s .
during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on raising france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % a year , and reducing unemployment to below 6 % . would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries is achieve both goals for the way of easiest . costs are tied to the challenge of unemployment part . tepid hiring is a natural consequence . , and have some of the highest labor costs for hourly employees in the eu in france . that labor is taxed much more than capital gains , many french upset with growing inequality .
amounting to 0.5 % of gdp to a budget deficit foresaw 2 % of gdp growth . was signed by the federal budget in early december . but collapsing oil prices , together with tough economic sanctions imposed by the us and europe , meant that by the end of the month , the government was predicting a 4 % decline in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp – and that after budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . it 's estimated that oil prices were high russia will spend 70 % of the reserve fund accrued over the last decade by the end of this year based on these figures . if in place , western economic sanctions remain . , and persist low oil prices . , russia will run out of cash by the end of 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
but , of course , libra is being sold than this as much more . as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want sending money to be as easy as sending a text message . ” would this practice work the form of private money linked to a basket of stable major currencies , how take ? if the people of argentina could switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with a single touch of their smartphones , would n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first hint of trouble in the domestic economy ? a standard “ efficient market ” analysis does not help us answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting .
the recently rising euro also has helped keep down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorated somewhat in the euro-zone area . during april , the rise in inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation occurred more or less concurrently . barely moved is would have to go higher because of the deterioration in inflationary expectations during this period been expected . on the 10-year german bond . this plus for economic recovery sustaining is a big . . to lose faith in us , the new treasury secretary henry son cause investors financial assets at some point in time , the rising euro of bernanke will should bush .
the political world to a well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring is precise counterpart . is the entity of political . when stressed , big chunks , but then the disintegration surface bi@@ fur@@ needs big smaller and smaller fragments continues . of the six larger eu states , only france has a really well-defined centralized political system . poland ’s centralism comes close , but strong regional differences persist – a legacy of the three large and quite different imperial systems that encompassed today ’s poland in the nineteenth century . italy of small and medium-size political units , a colorful variety . nineteenth-century amalgamations was and germany . . by a political party that wants to repeal the 1707 act of union , with the future to be determined by a scottish referendum in 2014 , the united kingdom looks more stable and .
we because we trust the government 100 is 100 , not 10 or 50 , when it says . decide , you believe in banknotes . . money , therefore , no society can function which , it 's about trust . . just as we obey our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers and our money to those who run citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks , because we believe their leaders will be fair to their employees and clients , and honorable in their business practices . we work for crooks and liars wishing do not grow . . once that trust breaks , bad things happen .
ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not be saved ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , not rage – in sharp contrast to , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . gor@@ died reformer was improbable like sanders and francis . he did n't in the way that president vladimir putin clearly has , it processes to this machine . , i surrender his thought . despite rising to power with the support of the kgb . likewise , far from fitting the mold of the democratic machine , sanders is working to pull the party back “ to the social democratic left where it belongs . ”
america ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . those in the developing world who believe that there has been a history of bargaining in bad faith have a strong case . that a choice of hard : will they be better off accepting the crumbs being offered to them ? leaves developing countries that leaves developing countries facing a hard choice : will they be better off accepting the crumbs being offered to them ? whatever the economics , taking this route may be harder today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that accept what is widely viewed as another unfair trade agreement . unsurprisingly , the rich countries ’ negotiators throw around big numbers when describing the gains from even an imperfect agreement .
princeton – recently , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva at the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) – announced that the celebrated discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson was indeed the higgs boson . except for one important thing : black holes , the standard model of particle physics is complete . the earth in a matter of months swallow would that , four years ago . not to mention lawsuits , about high-energy particle physics experiments provoked widespread fear . is the nostradamuses of latter-day . the last of their species neither first of course , these prophets were .
an important role in brazilian politics has long played . is monetary policy . which reached 2,477 % in 1993 , tame hyper@@ inflation . tried during the democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s the introduction of the “ real plan , ” launched in 1994 , managed to suppress annual price growth to an “ acceptable ” 22 % by the following year . riding on the plan ’s success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a former economy minister , was twice elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) , underscoring voter concern about price stability . today , as central bankers in developed countries fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian politicians are once again forced to respond to widespread fears about slowing growth and a return to high inflation .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was grim . those who think that globalization , technology , and the market economy will solve the world ’s problems seemed subdued . most bankers were were chastened . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , the disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they did a short while ago . and it was not just the bankers who were in the davos doghouse this year , but also their regulators – the central bankers .
now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone periphery , government defaults threaten to the banks of big take . the european central bank has provided a great deal of emergency “ liquidity ” funding to banks , which they use to buy even more government debt . this takes potential losses bigger in the case of potential default , but that debt in the short run interest rates . banks and politics intertwined in all economies of advanced are deeply . . diamond discovered that , ultimately , politicians trump bankers – at least in the uk .
despite low average growth rates , the income of the bottom quintile of the population grew by more than 6 % annually in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social policies . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the coming years . to go has a long way . , brazil . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s has become an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiency in existing production systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning with the goal of crowding in the latter , the division of infrastructure and investment labor between the public sectors .
in the period following the oil shocks of the 1970s until the early 1980s , almost two-thirds of the countries recorded inflation rates above 10 % . according to the latest data , which runs through july or august for most countries , there are “ only ” 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line in the figure ) . venezuela ( which has not published official inflation statistics this year ) and argentina ( which has not released reliable inflation data for several years ) figure prominently in this group . comprise the rest is african countries handful , iran , russia syria . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( the green line ) is higher in 2015 than that of countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of the total ) .
they have imposed so far , the fixes of quick . have not been successful for the most part . in higher education case , there is of course an alternative . in the absence of sufficient funds , one can simply let the universities deteriorate . on the european continent this since the 1970s has been happening . . to ever longer periods of study , a deterioration in the quality of degrees , and much unhappiness among both students and professors have led . is overcrowded classes in often physical environment inadequate without necessary equipment .
can seal such a diplomatic bargain is say sad , only war 's bloodshed . the need of kosova to be freed from milosevic 's grip has a decade of whole been so evident . . two million kosovars suffered from milosevic 's rule in every aspect of their lives , from basic security to education . they their grievances express through peaceful means tried for years . i tried to build the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations and peaceful forms of dissent other forms as a political activist in the final days of yugoslavia .
took many forms , including the brotherhood of muslim , founded in 1928 is the phenomenon . at the same time , efforts at nation-building along secular lines were reflected in egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian baath party , resulting in the establishment of the united arab republic , a union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . the result of neither political tendency , instead reflecting broad popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments was a half-@@ century the arab world the revolts of simultaneous . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that has claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the verge of collapse , and egypt returning power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia has been the only success . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thus clearing the way for what will be the most secular and fairest elections in any of the region ’s countries .
berlin – the way we eat in the industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . we produced under ethical , and social , questionable ecological conditions consume , far too much of the meat . and now our industrial model for meat production is being exported to the global south – especially india and china – where meat consumption is rising among these countries ’ emerging middle classes . that the annual amount will increase to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at the current rate , agriculture organization united nations food says . , and 300 million tons of meat are produced each year . can be produced only on an industrial scale , and at high social , political , and ecological costs is these amounts of large of meat .
cambridge – for some time , the four horsemen of us macroeconomic policymaking have been taxation , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . i 've found tax cuts to a positive contributor to economic growth be , having studied the first in detail . the evidence is , at best , to growth , only a minor contributor . suggests that regulation . though i have considered the second area in less detail . the third area is very important , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so worrying . an infrastructure program macroeconomic repertoire not a part is currently . : the fourth area exists only in rhetoric .
as gordon notes , there have been long-lasting productivity dividends associated with urbanization – a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . there will how long to converge on the so-called frontier of the advanced economies remains this tailwind subsides and china . come but china will face the same productivity challenges that confront america and others at that point . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth seems to recognize this risk . growth will a battle be without powerful innovations .
failed to establish an appropriate basis for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would need to even further , de@@ press economic activity but the plan . sadly , the opportunity to right puerto rico ’s fiscal ship has not been seized . on the contrary , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan and a deal with holders of bonds issued by the puerto rico urgent interest fund corporation ( cofina ) that could put the island in a debt straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 billion , the stock of cofina bonds ( which are backed by future sales-tax revenues ) accounts for more than one-third of the total debt in the new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort that is based on an unrealistic assessment of the commonwealth ’s economic conditions .
ten years on , what impact have the principles had on displaced people ’s lives ? notable , if insufficient is the achievements . we have the displaced plight raised awareness , brought about changes in government policies , and respond to their basic needs raised billions of dollars . . this lives save countless has helped . . to be strengthened , including through a new rapid funding mechanism , the un central emergency response fund remains humanitarian efforts .
whatever it is worn by people who are not governing a relatively poor country , he says a job of better does . andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen ’s era , was blunt in his moral judgments . “ the man who dies rich , ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . ” we can the man or woman who luxury goods buys similar , or wears a $ 30,000 watch . , like a $ 12,000 handbag adapt that judgment . essentially , such a person is saying ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant , or just plain selfish .
he shows that both the “ total ” and “ average ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . has been proposed since parfit revived the problem and other philosophers began to offer their own solutions every other answer does , but then . both volumes were published in 2011 , while a third , in press when parfit died , has just appeared if have been three separate books , is on what could easily be reasons and persons . . in this monumental work , totaling about 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the idea – almost universally assumed by economists , and by many philosophers from david hume onward – that the role of reason is to tell us how to get what we want , but not to tell us what to want . , parfit argued , , the contrary can be hurt .
we can make a difference as well in schools , our homes by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work . as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high blood pressure , diabetes , or a heart condition should be health care seeking . furthermore , we must a frequently ignored issue , reduce mental health qu@@ ity . this the best obstacles to a lack of the specialized resources available in wealthier areas may be at greater risk of pathology where populations , income communities is often a problem . . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its representatives in davos .
a terrorist attack is small because of the dubai takeover , i argue . , experts . there would be no problem should be small damage inflicted by a terrorist attack also . but because ports are thought to be one of the few ways terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons into the us , an attack damage could be tremendous . because of this , americans ca n’t afford to take even the minutest of chances with their ports – the consequences of error being too staggering to contemplate . even if their president does not , the american public understands this .
but four political developments the international security agenda that 've changed to transform chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right are likely . . first , the revolutions in the arab world and nato ’s military intervention in libya have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and northern africa . second , the international financial crisis will have an immense impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , the robert gate defense outgoing us secretary the debate on transatlantic burden-sharing and solidarity revived . finally , the first nato summit to be held in the united states in 13 years is taking place not only in an election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown .
yet smallholders can not be ignored when it comes to climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production and provide up to 80 % of the food supply in developing countries . together , they manage vast areas of our planet , including asia and sub@@ har@@ an africa the farmland 80 % . can we really addressing the twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability take a leading role . , count on many of them desperately poor farmers ? can they the environment of natural produce more food ? we is a resounding yes believe the answer to both questions . .
access for foreign investors be would be one such reform . over the last decade , foreigners have been barred from making investments in more than 40 industries designated “ critical for national security ” by the government . this ban , while beneficial for industry insiders , has reduced russia ’s access to financial markets and , more critical , to new technologies , which follow the financial flows . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as has the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright bans of food imports from the european union and the us . also increase gdp growth long-term gdp would not give the economy an immediate boost . , lifting these restrictions .
the countries of cee and the uk the relationship has always been somewhat fraught . the uk was eu membership for cee countries a proponent at a time leaders in france and germany were still very uncomfortable with eu enlargement when in the 1990s . but uk support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to accept the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – made no secret of their desire to use the widening of eu membership to prevent the deepening of european integration . david david david obtained a clause of opt-out in the case of a decision to move toward ever-closer union during the negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the referendum . it 'll to illiberal politicians in eastern europe , send a signal of dangerous . , should he prevail in the referendum and convince voters to stay .
and workers of the future will require training in ethics , to help them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . educators preparing students for this future must start now . to avoid becoming blind determinists , study political history and . should be business majors . engineers building the workforce of future will be learn from engineering students . must be economists . so that they gain the insight that will be needed to defend people from forces that may seek to turn individuals into disposable parts , focus on the intersection of big data and human rights . should be provided for and law .
lower levels have no appeal and collaborative input little ; the top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary . serious breaches can reprimands or dismissals result . largely self-regulating become has the system . with the writers and producers themselves , 99 % of all censorship occurs in my experience . they from offending material from the outset , you create shows . , so the above of sporadic complaints and warnings enable them to develop an intuitive sense for the boundaries of acceptable content .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe has decided to extend the diet ’s current session for 95 days , until september 27 – making for the longest continuous session in the japanese parliament ’s postwar history . the reason is clear : abe is determined to pass a set of national security bills allowing a reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution that enables the country to play a greater role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s actions in the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g-7 summit in germany , where he broke with japanese tradition . for the previous 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 had focused on the economic discussions at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots and recommended action or , more often , inaction . japan no longer stand on the diplomatic sidelines intends , i showed . , but the summit .
ko@@ hl put enlargement on hold until the russian and us presidential elections passed urged in february 1996 . he discuss the matter publicly instructed ministers . and be left in the hands of the nato machinery alone talks , i suggested . . to underline this , after returning from his summer 's vacation , the first foreign policy activity of the chancellor 's to the ailing boris yeltsin , with whom kohl has friendly relations , she was a visit . . this visit nato enlargement rush yielded not another appeal . . in germany 's parliament , the chancellor announced that yeltsin , after his operation , would " renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement ... and i have been able . . to reach agreement with president clinton , president chirac and prime minister major that we would now refrain firmly from dealing with the important matter of nato-enlargement in some framework so that moscow does not feel we are creating a fiat accompli . "
can explain recent trends in longevity , body size , the durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases is fo@@ gel believes only this . these changes are also triggering changes in human consciousness . the result is a litany of " post-utopian " values that include a stronger emphasis on individual freedom and personal responsibility . in without utopia for this world , individual freedom the supreme value is . but there are the magnitude of any change .
london – the gravity of the eurozone crisis has finally sunk in . be higher could not be stakes . governments and international financial institutions to put together a solution within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints have scrambled . . will be as challenging as at least for implementation ; many questions have yet to be answered about the design . to preserve only the currency in europe , but also the gains from financial integration , aim must now be eurozone leaders .
washington , dc – while much of the developed world is properly worried about myriad privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and demanding – and securing – for individuals a “ right to be forgotten , ” many around the world are posing a very different question : what about the right to be seen ? the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after the second powerful leader of iran 's its targeted killing . interests elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us . a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . either side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation , and we have already been for decades at war after all , iran and the .
victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico has consumed un@@ told numbers . is drug-related violence . the swiss re-examined their government ’s drug policies with a pragmatic eye . health professionals took the lead in a campaign to press the government – through the mechanisms of direct democracy – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users toward public-health policies that are based on scientific evidence of what works . in order to prevent the spread of hiv created needle exchanges , including in prisons , and a large scale established safe injection rooms . , implemented methadone programs is swiss . . oversaw an experiment in prescribing heroin to people who had lived with opiate dependency for significant periods is also the public health of the federal office swiss .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence will have on the functioning of our economies and labor markets has been a hot topic for a long time . but jerry kaplan ’s recent book humans need not apply : a guide to wealth and work in the age of artificial intelligence has impressed upon me the true size of the socioeconomic stakes . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets is the ability to earn huge returns in high-speed trading by being a microsecond “ ahead ” of everyone else . another is the capacity for price discrimination by new electronic market makers like uber , which thus appropriate every penny of the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . could emerge , integrating car , bus , ship , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into one super-app soon a kind of new of enhanced uber .
their investment differentiating the necessary from the desirable including must be used in limited resources world . to identify and maximize complementarity finding ways . is essential to that end . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping 4.5 billion – lack safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes and fueling river pollution . with a growing share of the world ’s population – including many of the same people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protection , water provision , and health could not be more important . global health and conservation professionals must cooperate more closely to find those solutions – and convince policymakers to pursue them .
this licensing and annual maintenance fees , not electricity usage is based on business model whose . , software providers is an unwelcome development . . indeed , large companies in almost every field as start-ups become better equipped , more competitive , and capable , like larger firms , of reaching customers and users everywhere , i are vulnerable . . furthermore , among economic sectors , as occurred when television overtook radio or , more recently , when online media gained predominance over print publication , disruptive technologies will cause value . they are prepared to seize opportunities or mount an effective defense quickly , so invest in new technologies . must now be all sectors businesses . indeed , ceos and top leaders other need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , and constantly assess how innovations will affect the status quo , specifically their profit pools .
was dropped to 13.5 % by 2013 were starving though the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than in 1991 , 209 million fewer over the past 22 years , the world has managed to feed almost two billion more people adequately – no small feat . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to set new global targets to be met by 2030 . the task amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete targets .
many more injured in what is remembered as the peterloo massacre , and killed fifteen people . the violent revolution french given the recent memory , the british elite reluctantly agreed to democratizing reforms . ultimately , the reform act of 1832 abolished the rotten boroughs and extended the franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . the united states , too , went though a period of robber-baron industrialization in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s . dudley warner in their book : satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles was the era of the greed and corruption . .
but thanks to farage – and the faragism that has taken over the governing conservative party – an act of economic self-harm that clearly runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . the public a human face sees globalization , and akin to an uncontrollable runaway train across the west : narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british disease . moderate leaders everywhere must now respond not only to the economic discontent of millions who are losing out , but also to the cultural pessimism and the dismissal of politicians as being “ in it only for themselves ” that are giving succor to the populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . is the political judgment of gross errors a series during and after the 2016 referendum campaign , however , what makes it so much worse in britain . while the defeated remain side waged an economic campaign centered on fear of jobs losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave side waged a culture war by exaggerating fears of immigration and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control . ”
that many of them were contradictory and overlapping , existing laws and regulations a survey found . ande proposed creation of a court of new by amending the constitution . it was strong public support successful due for combating corruption . to reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflicts and duplications is been completed . is the court of new . to pursue their countries on the best strategies and tactics must be each firm and business association .
have the cynicism state in ukraine reach , how ? we were standing up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , and to dispose of state property , at its will , everyone knew what the streets of kyiv gathered . no court could be relied upon to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their interests as challenged as formal legal existed rights , i 'm in so far . . we believed ended the absolutism form in evicting that regime . instead , their rights were inviolate to the property they had stolen , i insisted . , those who benefited from the regime = s corruptions .
called atole a micronutrient and protein supplement provided with continuous access . was one community . in addition , health workers provided free medical services mothers visited during pregnancy . another community nearby except that the micronutrient supplement was provided without protein , the same program had . . for the children who received atole , the risk of stunting fell by one-half more . they stayed in school longer , learned more , stepped in adulthood on cognitive tests , and higher-paying , skilled jobs be employed . were more likely . .
was the feuds riven from day one adversaries rather than partners acted , ministers . blamed each other instead of blaming iliescu for he left the country in which , the shambles . . a postcommunist malady is such squ@@ ab@@ bling , it seems , . in all three , infighting among reformers the communists to the political heirs , even russia , poland , hungary .
though the economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . they well-organized trade unions that helped reach at least , a critical mass temporarily by the movement were joined him . . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest against macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not by utopia but by despair . in this sense , the uprising of yellow in that it amounts to an act of shooting oneself in the foot is not unlike french bre@@ x@@ it . . the french have adopted barricades , marches , and stone throwing a mixture , whereas the british resorted to the ballot box .
she regrets nothing to remembers everything . she she her most cherished values and beliefs was loyal . in acting as she did feels . . and she has no doubt that the west , in responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . the most she of the tribal conflicts and the coming contest among islamists , he sees still one in the first time to out@@ out@@ flow one . , he is . , what strikes me . . she worries about the early violations of human rights , particularly women ’s rights , which she fears will multiply .
the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , adopting a containment strategy instead over the last six months . china is scrambling to win friends in the region , facing the us escalating geo@@ political competition . although china ’s charm offensive is very recent , its contours are already clear . trade is the feature of most . china will offer attractive trade terms to its neighbors , much as it has done with singapore , as numerous countries of asian largest trading partner .
london – “ shorting ” is a tactic well known among the financial cognoscenti . it how its value goes down is a profit . borrowed money means running against an asset . . a speculator can “ short ” a government by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later at a lower price and pocketing the difference . i think will soon be up for the greeks in the game on january 1 , 2010 . for example . i borrow , at face value , € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for six months .
indeed , the lack of restrictions practices of journalistic has enabled . jordan ’s diverse tribal composition was reflected in newly established web sites , some of which were created with tacit support – and even funding – from security agencies or other official or political groups . moreover , the financial gain exclusively for sites of news web launched many people . taking advantage of the implicit authority of news media , they published any potentially damaging rumor about individuals or groups with means and influence , then offered to remove the story in exchange for a paid advertisement or a direct cash payment . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” by online news media and demanded that the government establish a regulatory framework for this unruly new sector .
its iraq mission 's headquarters tragic bombing has now ripped into the humanitarian work of un . is the poison of terrorism . one of the world 's most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello were killed . is innocent people dozens . on terrorism , his wage determination in president bush . should not abandon the un , i declared . is other leaders . demand answers that , it raises political questions . , but the bombing .
but they are really illegal occupiers , as russia ’s decision to give russian passports to these regions ’ residents attests . is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes the serbian province of kosovo as an independent nation is now russia . to the extent that most of the residents of abkhazia and south ossetia have already been given russian citizenship , the recognition of those two regions ’ sovereignty would be entirely fictitious and , in fact , an interim measure on the way to their full annexation by russia . to strengthen russia ’s political influence over georgia ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without taking the trouble to ask for permission from georgia ’s democratically elected leaders , has begun constructing a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . although there was no interruption of gas supply from tbilisi to south ossetia , this step is necessary for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration of this georgian region into russia ’s economic system .
back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves into thinking that they could control their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s strange behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism . sadly , many of today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history , and think and act as if interests and values were totally disconnected from each other in the real world . so long as trump is good for business , they appear unconcerned that he is the single biggest threat to america ’s soul and values , and to its image and interests abroad . he has been asking them the right questions , but they may be the trade chinese going too far . .
this would open the door for provisions outlawing the benign , low-risk data mining that drives online advertising even more worryingly . is growing quickly for the amount being spent on it in europe , and the eu citizens to access information , educational material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying for online advertising . the industry ’s revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as the overall european economy has stagnated . the eu ’s privacy crackdown threatens to undermine all of this . not only will it create an administrative burden through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many of europe ’s most prominent online companies .
the effect can be dramatic are developed in conjunction with rigorous research . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed school because they did n’t have access to clean sanitary products . but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation were provided to girls in eight schools , attendance rose by an average of 17 % . the global-health community must work together to address the menstrual needs of women and girls everywhere ; there is no single solution to this global problem . but so that women and girls can obtain the sanitary products they need at affordable prices , the menstruation of the natural process in the silence must be broken . today , bloody good period donates sanitary products – including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers every month .
but there were cleanse the judiciary to sack a tainted prosecutor for many revolutionaries . for example , a new law the judiciary regulating has been since its early weeks for the revolution of a demand . the meaningless effort rendering , strike down law . could be provided for mor@@ si dilemma . he had already backed off twice : once in july 2012 , when he abandoned his effort , under pressure from the supreme council of the armed forces , to reinstate the elected parliament ; and once when he tried to remove the public prosecutor by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a decisive – though undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step to break the impasse .
moreover , it to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation leads to the commitment of longstanding us betrayal . . in foreign policy , us secretary of state rex tillerson has endorsed the revival of the monroe doctrine – the nineteenth-century assertion of us primacy in the western hemisphere that aimed to keep out european competitors – in central and south america , in order to curb china ’s growing influence . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared south of the border , where , as one mexican commentator pointed out , the monroe doctrine “ served to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us . the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear devices that would deliver by submarine a nuclear bomb equivalent in power to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
in other emerging markets , too , the main challenge the common goals of all macroeconomic and structural policies advance , i ensure . is . to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets in order , i 'm reformed . must be considered at the same time of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund . collective problems related to macroeconomic-policy spillovers , and in insurance against crises providing remain ineffective will be provided by these institutions . should focus on the underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than trying to treat the symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls is advanced emerging countries and policymakers alike . these measures will prove futile in capital flows if they institutional structures strong at all levels are supported . .
the rapid loss of white - and blue-collar routine jobs to automation , and of two factors : are largely lower labour costs is the economic challenges facing developed-country middle classes . revenue and wage for the latter pattern growth in the service sectors non-tradable , not only in the tradable sector directly , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the result was surplus labor conditions in the middle - and lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar to the surplus labor in early-stage developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( for a period of time ) even as the economy expands . though these are probably secondary factors , labor and a falling real minimum wage the bargaining power a decline may also be contributed to revenue . we have largely failed to middle-class households struggles recognize fully though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented .
zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming change of leadership at the institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 , likely to succeed mario draghi as president – offers an important opportunity to heed that call . following iran 's second most powerful leader the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
only recently , such scenarios were unimaginable . for decades , europe has constituted the world ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region , a place where history seemed to have all but ended . a peaceful , whole , and free continent making goal had largely been realized . to europe come but dramatic changes . one factor is the willingness and ability shown by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda .
have in an un@@ controlled military escalation , an interest in neither side , and the us been at war for decades . projects asked to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months for its commentators as in previous years . it what happens will weigh on the present for many years to come in 2020 is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . deemed despite posing serious environmental risks , environmentally sound is only one of many infrastructure projects . is batang toru . for example , construction is nearly complete on a railway line through kenya ’s famous nairobi national park , despite public outrage over an “ incomplete and incompetent ” environmental impact assessment .
pulling the economy back from the brink played a major role . is monetary expansion . : in many ways , these measures succeeded . but , over time , central banks ’ capacity to affect the real economy declined . today – and for the foreseeable future – domestic inflation is increasingly affected by global , rather than local , developments , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy are far more influential than monetary policy . for the ecb , this particularly serious generates a challenge . . other central banks must with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination , account for the preferences of 19 sovereign national governments . after all .
the cities of fastest-growing are in asia , today . beijing is roughly 10 ° c hotter than the nearby countryside in the daytime and 5.5 ° c warmer at night . there are even more dramatic increases in tokyo . in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above the surrounding countryside , reaching 40oc – a scorching heat that affected not only the downtown area , but also covered some 8,000 square kilometers . we can see the urban heat island the real effect at houston , texas , a fast-growing city .
about them , and worried , some people saw these changes . to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings , a growing minority started . the sweat of one ’s brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – often conspicuous consumption . new community sources became gyms . and the employer creation as a valuable source of physical and mental wellbeing see such re@@ creation . came , as coworkers started to exercise together .
according to the european council on foreign relations , 32 referenda are being demanded in 18 countries across the eu . some , such as the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to escape from the eurozone , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved to be particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on the proposed quotas .
from the outset of his presidency , obama ’s defense of a liberal trade regime has been inadequate . they create jobs , he that exports are good for the us , she has said . . but us exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . he can surely ask his audience to think of jobs in the ups cargo planes , freight trains , and trucks that carry imports into the american interior , he remind americans that imports good are needs . the main problem , however , is that obama has been unable to confront , and put to rest , us labor unions ’ fear-driven hostility to trade .
usury ( making money from money ) was an offense against god . it was only morally respectable in the eighteenth century . it was now considered healthily promethean to money turn wealth and put it to work to make more money , because by doing this one was benefiting humanity . this how talks money always , life inspired the american way . . the urge to listen to it means the capitalism of the end .
instead of focusing on treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to long-term rehabilitation centers located in the depths of the countryside that have little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . as evidenced by the fact that 60 % of people sentenced for drug possession in poland are marijuana smokers , treat possession of even the smallest quantities of drugs as criminal . chooses is also poland . have failed to decline usage rates , and does nothing to demand , however , curb . a public-health crisis deepening contributes , criminalization by driving users . imprison drug users opted remains across central and eastern europe . is this pattern .
frankfurt – the european central bank is in the middle of a big , risky experiment . close to zero for six years now have remained . is rates of key interest . financial markets with liquidity are flooded . . crisis management has resulted in major market distortions , with some segments ’ performance no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with the us federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
a security-management organization true that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective has evolved . is the alliance . have changed the threats , and we to meet them have changed . , become more global . . developing a capability defense to against a grave and growing threat , protect our european populations and territory . is nato . working to police major sea lanes threatened by pirates with many others the european union is in the indian ocean . it takes with the un to prevent harm to children , i working closely . , and tasks such as de-mining , disaster relief , and in countries around the world .
to promote sales , buyers are exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 - $ 10,000 per vehicle ) . and , conventional motor vehicles the eventual replacement anticipating , the authorities providing generous subsidies for domestic manufacturing are . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock , by betting on the resuscitation of a dying – and deadly – fossil-fuel industry . which domestic development , manufacture , and purchase , the $ 7,500 federal tax credit of consumers such has supported by federal subsidies . describing a transition to electric vehicles as a job killer . china ’s dependence on fossil fuels has left it in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out .
such border pricing would be world trade organization rules compatible and enhance global welfare provided that it is non-discriminatory . but would be very difficult in practice , calculating the appropriate tax . it would , for example , regulatory ceilings the equivalent of tax necessitate calculating . invite countries like the states of united to make it somewhat perilous with distortive measures may also be the measure . moreover , the tax would likely have regressive distributional consequences , hurting poor countries the most .
eurozone countries , together with others willing to join the euro in the future ( the “ eurozone plus ” ) , could simply decide to use the legal means already available to increase cooperation . ideally , this cooperation would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to support their action.the scope of this provision – which says that , “ the [ european ] council shall … adopt measures specific to [ euro ] member states , ” and that “ only [ euro ] member states … shall take part in the vote ” – is wide . would allow of the eurozone in the international monetary fund and the world bank , unified representation in addition three policy areas other extend cooperation could be the group :
gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everyone has the right to believe in what they want , ” but she insists that , “ the rights of children come above the right to believe . ” for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of the islamic cultural center of iceland has countered that circumcision is a part of the muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to “ a contravention [ of ] religious freedom . ” and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , the bishop of iceland , has warned that the ban would effectively turn judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” because anyone practicing circumcision could be subject to six years in jail . both sides their arguments on human rights base complicating matters further . for example , some supporters of the ban have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that , “ no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ”
but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classic instruments of nuclear deterrence – punishment and denial – as they assess the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also entanglement and norms the mechanisms pay attention . it probably has little effect on a state such as north korea , which is weakly linked to the world economy , but the cost-benefit calculation of the china of a major state can be changed by entanglement . . “ persistent engagement ” can , however , aid deterrence in such difficult cases . of course , entering any adversary ’s network and disrupting attacks poses a danger of escalation .
a stability pact more rigorous stricter confirmation is also imperative to achieve greater integration . here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and strengthening governance among the eurozone ’s member states . however , the european financial stability facility total firepower needed to restore financial stability . will be more . moreover , if we want the eu to emerge strengthened from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , without growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s problems can not be resolved . the eu must to long-term competitiveness , which is ultimately determined by the value added to goods and services , tie its economic strategies . more importantly .
the us for shadow-banking transactions volume exceeded the conventional banking assets in 2007 . that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to $ 67 trillion , with the us accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone for $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom for $ 9 trillion , the stability financial board was estimated . totals only about $ 2.2 trillion is shadow banking chinese . by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and smes , china shadow banking is dominated . it is ultimately funded through retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products , and private equity .
obama the strong commitment of international community was the conflict settlement . in 2009 . in 2011 , he asserted that only both sides ’ willingness could ensure a successful outcome . i ca n't the conflict resolve is much . the us . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are a few factors worth considering : the increase in the number of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent adversaries ; and major political differences between a centrist us president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . but the blame a part of large is borne by obama himself .
as economists such as mit ’s david autor have shown the impact of this in developed countries can be both bad for some workers and good for company profits . it 's in infrastructure fosters a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and the proceeds of exp@@ ort@@ -@@ growth in infrastructure any developing country very good but . china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without trade initially driven by labor-cost differences . in the future , however , this type of trade will probably become less important . its labor-cost advantage is fast as rising quickly wages in china .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging , and what does a lower proportion of working-age people mean for the country ’s economic development ? can – and should – anything be done , particularly to the country ’s “ one child ” policy , to slow the trend ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china are based on the country ’s total fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged for 20 years . but population-survey data published by the national bureau of statistics suggests that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ newly published report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low-fertility countries . a long period of low fertility means that china ’s population is aging and growth in the working-age population is slowing .
some switched to targeting the inflation rate after the monetarist approach failed . but they repeatedly missed their targets . until the 1990s currency crashes , emerging and developing countries their exchange rates tended to target . . many then also switched to inflation targets ; but they tend to miss these targets even more often than the advanced countries do . even though a particular numerical target may be reasonable when it is set , subsequent unexpected developments often to live with make the target . is . is the problem with these approaches to monetary-policy targeting .
are far greater than those posed by a mere potential financial crisis is now socializing debts a result facing europe . that the eurozone must develop sovereign insolvency procedures as quickly as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization is drawn from the debacle of greek is lesson . . if the european union ’s national governments want to help one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally provide humanitarian aid , without conditionality and without redemption . he 'll be your friend no longer , if you lend to your friend . would be hold europe together is impossible . if heeded that wisdom
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power in part by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians living in western europe ) . trump ’s republican party uses similar tactics . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house and described him as “ respected all over europe . ” trump and his advisers evidently have learned a great deal from orbán about racist immigration policies and how to destroy a democracy . they are making it hungarian ; they are not making america great or even good .
worse , orbán has destroyed the independence of hungary ’s civil service and thoroughly politicized the administration of the law . that the us government now loses about 94 % of its regulatory court cases , i 'm doing the same . is trump . card has to honest , open debate about how to formulate and implement policy , the atmosphere creating . , and us state department employees at the same time . in his quest to destroy the rule of law in america is now . by politicizing us administrative agencies , starting to capture the justice department , and committing himself to making ideological judicial appointments . while orbán has applied economic pressure to force the closure of hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ the enemy of the people ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets .
but it is unclear from ayyadurai ’s article which data were used , and there is no validation of the model . folta offers a brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to predict the location of munich , and the program told you it was squarely in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , it does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right off of florida . ” instead , it means that you have made a mistake , in your program , assumptions , or input data – all of which are testable . to decide not to challenge those data , folta continues , and instead to “ publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data and the claims of millions of rather dry germans , does not mean that you are brilliant .
europe faces a fundamental collective-action problem in other words : experience has shown that only an acute crisis can force europe ’s leaders to act together in a concerted effort . but at the height of the global financial crisis a common bank-rescue fund creation did n't think . , in the autumn of 2008 . instead , they to one by one , stabilize national banking systems . , he felt national measures package . . the sum of the headline commitment was impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp .
the state prevailed quo , but ensued a war . though kashmir was not the focus , he fought in 1971 . were two sides . india began supporting rebel groups there after the civil war against the bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan , we pitting th@@ en-@@ west . a wave of refugees fueled east . east pakistan became the independent state of bangladesh , and to surrender forced was west pakistan . . then , in 1999 , the kashmir of another indo-pakistani skirmish erupted , after to the indian-controlled district of kargil , pakistan sent troops . .
with the emergence in the 1980 ’s of hiv , which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged , and is the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals . suffer from co-infection of hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary causative agent in most tb cases is roughly 15 million people . moreover , the tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity . whereas pandemics appear suddenly , spread rapidly , and raise enormous fears of an impending threat , tb has been spreading slowly but consistently for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . administered over at least six months three drugs requires tb treatment .
the disadvantages of strengthening europe ’s fiscal union further do not end there . would , paradoxically , make political union increasingly unlikely for one simple , but important reason : france continued progress toward fiscal union . europe ’s strongest military power by far , france has thwarted all attempts to pool europe ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the treaty for the western union defense organization . france rejected political unification process the beginning could be marked by the proposed european union constitution . in 2005 .
the strategy should be discarded , and are clear for inflation targeting limits . central banks now have to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with the responsibility – regardless of whether it is legally mandated – to reduce financial vulnerability . this will not in macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision , another operational burden was placed on many central banks : least , be easy . . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ independence , and policy conflicts , all of which could influence the behavior of financial intermediaries , by encouraging them to assume greater risk . they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal – for example , it can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for a while ) – and a strong interest in protecting its reputation .
with a small number of large , productive firms , small firms , unproductive an unusually large number exist compared to developed countries . this is inefficient according to the economic reasoning of standard . total output and well-being would increase if the larger , more productive and firms hired their workers , the small , unproductive firms closed . . this should because to deliver a better product at a lower price , while luring workers with higher wages should be provided for the firms of more productive . , happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition . . so , why does n’t this happen routinely in developing countries ?
the world 's attention has focused zemin 's successor for president jiang as china 's new leadership team emerges . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most significant moment in china 's recent history of boom and transformation was the 1998 appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced " joo rong-jee " ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . given the obvious importance of the post in recent years , the choice of mr. zhu 's replacement may be of even more significance than president jiang 's departure from center stage . as the architect of china 's 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and the mastermind of its successful fight against inflation , even before he became as china 's central bank the president , mr. zhu . a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence on performance ... american conglomerate the tough-minded , longtime ceo general electric sector has been mr. zhu . .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . but there are business opportunities focusing partly because several african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the largest 11 african economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) . for some analysts , like brazil as economic powerhouses , the emergence of countries successful demutualization of the exchanges of stock stems partly partly . . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , and their combined market capitalization has soared from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world total ) at the end of 2009 – as high as the fifteenth-largest stock exchange in the world .
how skilled workers emigrate do suffer . , some countries . but the mechanism even greater damage to causing is that allow use their skills migrants . driving taxicabs should not be trained doctors . it 's absolutely necessary , but 's not easy to establishing national , regional , and global standards . • accelerate eligibility for residency rights and citizenship .
a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot during the second-round debates , when he suggested that he favors forming a eurozone government run may heading into the campaign of election . unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-quarter of the electorate . will not arrive unannounced or defy expectations , as happened in the us and the uk is of the old french far right and disaffected working-class voters , his coalition . . he may even be able to skim votes from le pen , given that around 8 % of primary voters described themselves as national front backers , and the same level of support may probably muster for his part , fillon . . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold .
generations of poles have participated in the charity ’s fundraising drives . for years , poles have ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority – ahead of the pope . the state media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as the guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s murder will only undermine the pis . kaczyński has repeatedly demonstrated his impulsiveness . he the consequences of his actions pursues powers . .
new york – the last fast-food hamburger you ate may have cost you next to nothing . what did that burger the slice of tomato cost the worker who got it there , but what ? almost anywhere in the world – including in the united states – the cost can be shockingly high . are just the start is appalling wages . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( 14.5-kilogram ) bucket .
when xi first unveiled his slogan after being selected as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic terms : the “ chinese people dream of living the same good life as all other people in the world . ” xi has said little about the china dream since – and his silence has caused considerable trouble . china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not demonstrating sufficient loyalty and respect for the new party chief , quickly hijacked the slogan ; the china dream has replaced the “ china model ” in official political branding . whatever the new administration does is touted as part of its ambitious effort to make the “ china dream ” come true . unfortunately , they try to brand , i discredit anything . is a perverse capacity . have double as censors .
they ca n't is impossible for humans genetic experi@@ mentation in fact . there 's no simple one-to-one correspondence between gene and behavioral trait even in animals whose genes are more easily studied and much better understood , such as drosophila , the tiny fruit fly . instead , every characteristic influence , the genes of a wide variety . are surprisingly ours similar -- as they are to those of most other creatures is genes fruit fly . even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own .
the days when was a nice bonus for investors in the esg performance strong is gone . that the companies in which they invest operate in ethical , transparent ways that limit reputational risk , fund managers pension trustees insist . investment decisions at emerging-market funds are thus increasingly preceded by rigorous esg screenings – screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has no chance of passing . cambodia is currently being stripped of its natural resources – including timber , rubber , and sand – for private gain . environmental degradation – especially deforestation – is accelerating and corruption is running rampant , with cash from opaque sources flowing into cambodia ’s casinos , banks , and real-estate market .
simply put , talk of “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines – and there is no going back . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellor of the exchequer gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered practical benefits of peace and prosperity to britain . ” other eu members have been mindful less of their domestic interests while the british have been particularly open about the nationalist nature of their support for european integration . in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . that economic common ground was the key to european integration , failed in 1954 . , however , establish political unity through a common army efforts .
their own holding against the united states define the eu as an instrument . is quite a few in europe . they see even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro is " strong " and the dollar is " weak " . the us has found a new " empire of evil " in " terrorist " states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary who helps it integrate in the united states . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic believe and in the constitution of liberty , in the values of the enlightenment . who . there is such as the west , a thing in basic values terms .
he is merely kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” in an effort to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat the pis faces . the saryusz-wolski of most can realistically in poland is a government position . hope . perhaps he will witold waszczykowski to replace the widely criticized foreign minister . the most the pis , for its part , can hope for is that some coalition of countries ( for example , those ruled by social democrats ) will propose another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states will elect in order to avoid escalating the conflict with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against the pis would be the punishment kaczyński deserves .
now the eu in the irish stew is again . . it is difficult to that offers a second referendum , see a way . , but this time . renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , since doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . they must solve it , and so irish lies is the problem . . danish voters a small majority rejected the maastricht treaty , but remember the situation in the summer help . , i ca n't .
but this is a risky outlook , experiences around the world suggest . even were banks healthy , the associated loss of wealth the deleveraging process means that , the economy will be weak likely than more . . means bank losses more more likely and a weak economy . the us limited is not supported by the problems . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real estate crises .
has made clear that it does not view itself as a military power , germany un , nato , or eu operations provide military forces . increased its capacity . . implying further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy are more effective than violence . , german policymakers continue to believe the political economic means . they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that take into account the activities and possible contributions of non-state actors . for the time being , germany ’s main foreign policy priorities are likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors – from which immediate security risks are most likely to emanate . this would be a wise choice .
if greece and other countries are to ensure the health and prosperity of their citizens in the decades to come , they will have to find a way to prevent current economic activity from increasing an already unsustainable burden of environmental debt . to be viewed as valuable endowments to be managed wisely , come must to happen . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its greatest assets – the reason why more than 200 million tourists flock to the region each year , feeding the region ’s economy . overusing resources , or even failing to manage them carefully , inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength . of course , countries with ecological deficits can often fill part of the gap through global trade – if they can pay for the necessary imports .
but she must convincingly outline practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , worsening educational performance , and north korea ’s nuclear weapons program . once provide loans for working-class families from elementary school to college years , while contending that be empowered to have more autonomy should be local universities . pledged , ms. park . she favors the six-party talks engagement policy so as to resolve the nuclear troubles . will pick the candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue , come presidential election-day in 2012 , south korean voters . park ’s success will depend , in the end , on the effectiveness of her campaign in further defining her character along those lines .
only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible , i anchor expectations of future adjustment is useful . . , a fiscal compact like the one approved recently . up-front gradualism must the game be name . and a strategy of growth wedded must be adjustment . revenue will grow consistently only if the tax base – that is , the economy – grows . that growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital , and
second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s “ mutual assessment process , ” suggested that the united states cut its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than planned – over $ 400 billion in additional cuts per year . the imf believes will economic growth deter us in current fiscal plans . recently , that serious fiscal consolidation would generate enough increase in private-sector confidence that gains in spending by households , the european central bank reiterated its position . and would lower spending more than , businesses . the oecd , however , global recovery 's slow consolidate too quickly . cautions governments . . america ’s major trading partners want the us to grow and buy more of their exports .
i with more skepticism , see the heritage of communism . , i confess . what from mendacity and solitude , religious faith bought the freedom . is people . , and totalitarian pressure was really exceptional people , paul paul 's . it who defended their supreme values with reference to , and in the language of , the same for example was did human@@ ism . , but . it was , rather , a daily immersion in lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption ; however , under totalitarian life ennobling was n't . this how do n't demonstrate any nobility or disinterestedness that seriously the west contrasts , postcommunist societies is .
direct policies more effective are shows . is clearly the evidence . the world bank ’s climate focus is also at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . they emphasized better education and health care , less corruption , more jobs , and affordable food , when the united nations asked around the world to list their priorities for almost ten million people . came last out of 16 issues is global warming . under kim , the bank propagated the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are always damaging , coal must be forbidden , and “ climate aid ” is the solution .
consider the most recent data for the year 2014 from the international energy agency ’s energy statistics 2016 . the world ’s co2 emissions from energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , while us emissions were nearly four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . trump carries on about the paris agreement ’s supposed bias in favor of india , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of the us level . trump also bemoans the us contributions to the green climate fund ( and sneers at the name for some reason as well ) . he without that $ 1 billion is a contribution of $ 3.08 per american , and the world explaining to the american people . , given over $ 1 billion . complains the us . .
secretary than general is his role , but can make speeches , convene meetings , and propose true , un secretary general ban ki moon . sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” the un secretary general can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . the un of hard power what has must be begged and borrowed from the member states . and on a course of action , they ca n't agree when . , it to operate is the organization difficult . . as one wag has put it , “ we have met the un and it is us ! ”
there the secretary of the state of armenia and azerbaijan , talk of a meeting in astana between the presidents of russia and france has been observed . perhaps for this reason . that but serious risks is great opportunity . in prospect . in the 20 years of the conflict , no such meeting was held . is a reason . , there . a meeting of presidents after all , the negotiating forum ultimate is . , and must lead to sustainable , real success . otherwise , it will appear that no amount of negotiation can help set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining a key restraint preventing the two sides from trying again to achieve a military solution .
governments uncharted water rough find them and europe . if the problem were simply a matter of gross violations of the organization of american states ’ democratic charter – convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro – solutions measured in months or years could be considered . it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions ; but a problem of political is n't venezuela . . true , venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and an all-powerful , one-party , illegally established constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . violence and contagious diseases are now practically out of control , and is such that appropriate el@@ ans his misrule impact .
but the last year has accelerated . is the social media embracing . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale adoption of twitter – modi ’s allies on the network include the party ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized supporters – prominent indian politicians from all parties have leapt in . a day after he was sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced that he would open a facebook account to receive and respond to the public ’s questions . read what traditional media outlets mine is web site . runs a popular is chief minister of west bengal mamata banerjee . his much older rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot and oommen chandy , respectively , have opened facebook accounts as well , and she interacts on twitter , and the chief minister youthful .
that nowadays economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the negative effects of those financial speculations boosted by globalization , it is the fact . so the world needs , in its regions , to facilitate integration on the basis of a general economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared legal rules and most of all a common will to fix the rules of the game according to a region ’s entire interests . the basis of political can be secure only by equal cooperation such . so long as a country is subordinated to the uncontrollable force of globalization , its future foreign hands is . but in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , poor developing countries and must some means to protect their new industries be permitted . .
they paid for with borrowed money were confronted with guns . , how egyptians rose up against mubarak in january . to continue paying for their previous repression and impoverishment at of mubarak and his cronies hands , egyptians , is it fair ? should it be mubarak , rather than his victims , for it , who is responsible . since this money clearly his people benefited mu@@ barak ? it was also clear how the money was being used , and he had been clear for many years was running . . before loans making , a prudent lender should be considered .
it 'll be hard to accomplish when the time comes even there . , but perhaps those are ideas en vogue in korea as it thinks about a possible unification . claims of alternative strategies must therefore be set at a somewhat lower level – say the initial exchange rate which might have been chosen to make east germany a low wage country . even that is a dream since , in the face of high unemployment , east german wages increased substantially every year west germany relative . had a rate of more rapid of wage inflation we would have , depreciated conversion rate . . that west germany would have foreseen the failure of the experiment before embarking upon it is remotely conceivable , one alternative strategy .
new businesses in the services sector – 3.6 million of which were started just last year – are generating incremental employment , thanks partly to a new streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms are while smaller businesses financing market access and , facilitating increased consumption . . china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build upon these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction ; public investment high enough is . and a broad-based expansion of credit is not safe with the corporate sector already overleveraged .
it would if poland remains in its constitutional crisis , with the government disregarding the rule of law and the opinion of a respected international body , it 's unimaginable for warsaw in june the planned summit leadership . . that russian president vladimir putin is actively attempting to divide and weaken the eu and nato , poles and hungarians must be reminded . if europe is to face down aggression from the kremlin , it is essential that poland and hungary adhere to these groups ’ fundamental values and principles . it that the eu itself develop a more comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law within the union is also necessary . , but . have the single market to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment in the eu
whatever fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts , many fear . but such interests driven is not most scientists . much stronger action to reduce emissions emissions those researching solar geoengineering or advocating for its inclusion in climate-policy debates the majority of vast . still , it ’s very likely that big fossil – from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions – will eventually use discussion of geoengineering to fight emissions restrictions . but that risk is not to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering is a sufficient reason . .
the us would as it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 , he had his power to the new order shaping . to achieve this . instead , the unilateralism temptation succumbed , america . national greatness for a world power always its ability to the world shape arises . it begins to decline if a great power loses the ability to act accordingly , or forgets this . . it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war opponent , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago this month , left its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of unilateralism .
do more to support african oil industries and make sure the negative effects of oil production are mitigated must be for their part , the industrialized economies . however , the industry of oil must be available for work such strategies . this means development and diversification support national agendas best engaging sincerely with african governments . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national oil company – which will be attended by barkindo , as well as numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders – is an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . working with other stakeholders , a sustainable and just transition campaigners can also to have a positive impact on economies which have so far experienced only the negative effects of the oil-backed development of the twentieth century is allowing carbon energy . , achieve something more . .
the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing the fighting in the southern part of mandatory palestine , which would later become israel suffered the region . , and economic development in the gaza strip was limited under egyptian rule . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled workforce was dependent on the un relief works administration , which built and maintained the local refugee camps . the 1967 war placed all of mandatory palestine ( as well as sinai and the golan ) under israeli military occupation . was available for a variety of jobs , but many owned their land although one-third of the west bank was closed to palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its largely rural population were refugees . 70 % of gaza who scores of refugee camps lived in difficult conditions . and were largely dependent on work in israel comprised refugees . by contrast .
the second draft of history is often written by the people of key themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him kindly because “ i propose to write that history . ” the same thought may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who were us treasury secretary , chairman of the federal reserve bank , and president of the new york fed , respectively when the financial crisis erupted . all three published lengthy memoirs explaining why they did , and did n’t , do what they did and did n’t do – inevitably , with a degree of self-justification in each case . now , a decade later , the three of them have co-authored what might be described as version 2.1 of that episode ’s history .
the aim was not to tackle the problems they faced directly , but to induce new , more efficient activities that would help to turn debt into assets and maximize use of the economy ’s capacity . in this sense , east asia ’s economies have embraced the process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby the economic structure is continually revolutionized from within . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – the replacement of old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones , they have expedited this process . for example , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms in the 1980s were spurred partly by growth in the non-agricultural sector , a result of policies aimed at stimulating township and village enterprises . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the result of state-owned enterprises ’ chronic loss-making and excessive property investment , respectively – by implementing institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby offsetting the soes ’ declining return on capital .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and the debate about kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustice of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely stirred a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and referendum on united nations membership . this neglect prove dangerous may is not only shortsighted . . this seeming double standard can be explained partly by a sense of guilt : the west has , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . similarly , much of the world is protesting on behalf of tibet because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . on the hand of other , taiwan does not because it is stable and flourishing economically , take our attention . .
many are now eagerly offering their views as to whether the uk should look again at the “ norway model ” of relations with the eu , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market . that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support , it 's clear option whatever . i hope in the uk on non-elected special advisers , there was the power . , or sp@@ ads have become dominant figures in all government reducing . , the better . during my 17-month experience as a minister , i became convinced that the spads ’ excessive power – and haughty approach – undermines the uk ’s excellent civil service , as well as elected and appointed ministers . may ’s two leading spads , fiona hill and nick timothy , took this danger to worrying levels .
indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials to present risks to human health known are currently . . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production . setting aside the issue of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are less than or comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities . it would be naïve to imagine that nanotechnology will evolve without risks to our health and environment . would be as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , responsible development of these technologies demands vigilance and social commitment while trying to nanomaterial-inspired technologies halt development
globally , human trafficking generates average annual profits of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced sexual exploitation . must take this appalling crime coordinated action , urgent . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to make child sex trafficking even more lucrative today , almost 4.5 billion people is around one in three internet users under the age of 18 access to the internet have . the online world unregulated is therefore child sex trafficking reaping enormous profits is fertile ground . . only a laptop or a smartphone with go into business for a high-speed connection internet , would-be traffickers need .
we all for that , i owe them . . has experienced a but promising hard start is the euro . it should not the differences in economic performance between america and europe started to slide against the dollar . in the euro , i 'm come . . the european political leaders of the willingness tested to keep quiet affairs , and it should not be surprising . america and japan support 's recent intervention showed and that the markets believe in its success , that the euro is here to stay . .
it pays to buy the dips , and were not weaned from the habit until it ceased to pay , people knew . now that internet fever has abated , we hear that the “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . that the boom would last forever because the internet economy had created new fundamentals is a half-truth as the previous notion . , but this view . brings into question economic theories of financial markets prevailing is the cycle online boom/bust . is that are not independently by what supposedly determine stock prices is the so-called fundamentals . , what should now be clear .
palo alto – since the development of the science of toxicology in the sixteenth century , its guiding principle has been that “ the dose makes the poison . ” it that applies to the medicines used by patients worldwide many billions of times a day is a rule . . consuming too much can be lethal , but therapeutic god@@ send be . nutmeg or licorice large amounts are notoriously toxic : the principle even foods applies . the risk that a substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its inherent capacity to cause harm and one ’s exposure to it .
given libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities is not the only country . , but libya . albania , mongolia , and india successfully passed more complicated tests – and offer some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavourable conditions . the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( east ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( west ) . fezzan did not fully the revolution join , and is n't tripolitania .
they by very long-term public debt , all of which the ecb should buy , 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries equal propose tax cuts . . they argue that no fiscal relaxation would be ineffective for the quantitative easing ecb alone . . giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail too large a stimulus . they an economy does quantitative . highlight a crucial question : , but ? has presented qe as a purely monetary policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of necessary and desirable fiscal consolidation is the bank of england .
never mind that the eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , for example , are utterly implausible ; these projections matter politically , because , without them , the full sting of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would be readily apparent . standard & poor ’s has received some justified criticism for the analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade us government debt ; after all , there was little economic news that could explain the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessment of the political situation is on target : by creating a dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of government , the tea party has shown that it is willing to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy and to ensure significantly slower growth . confrontation and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics , even when the us government ’s legal ability to pay its debts is on the line , owing to the tea party ’s ideological rigidity . and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier .
trump , for his part , accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . agreed to a 100-day plan for discussions on the us deficit with china trade reducing on trade . moreover , the us accepted china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating the us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement and cybersecurity , and social and cultural affairs . the understanding between xi and trump reflected the domestic and international risks face a acknowledgement of sober of their countries . both to enable them to focus on their respective challenges , a stable us-china relationship is necessary . , i recognize . seemed .
qatar u@@ ae and have already compulsory military service for adult men instituted . and kuwait is considering following in jordan ’s footsteps by reintroducing conscription , which is already in place in most sunni states ( and iran ) . against this background , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , for example , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though undoubtedly important , should not take priority over a strategy to address the sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy must center on federalism . it probably would not have ended up as a failed state , when the north-south rift emerged , example . had federalism been introduced in somalia . .
they are an expression of an ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society ; recognize that israeli elections are not strictly political affairs failed in the left . israeli elections vote on the basis of memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances for a affair of tribal are in some ways . . the israeli right ’s current political dominance is fed by a widespread yearning for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of arabs , and an uncompromising mistrust of a “ world , ” the so-called international community , with which jews have a centuries-old dispute . the left ’s yearning for peace is seen as naive , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and in either case an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers , and of aggrieved voters , a broad array . , netanyahu .
furthermore , fields like and health education be many women . will will be created . created health and education care over the next 10-15 years could be mgi research more than 100 million jobs . it is not yet clear exactly how automation will affect women ’s employment . but there is no doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their skills , so that they can take advantage of the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . the power of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , to the benefit of individual women , their communities and societies , and the world economy shows the e-commerce women success .
suppressed no resistance in the volga-ural area , caucasus and central asia , russia . however , after loyalty was secured , the government adopted a policy of more pragmatic . until the mid 19th century , sedentary muslim elites were co-opted into the imperial aristocracy , just as , in the 20th century , national communist elites were absorbed into the soviet nomenclatura . go back thousands of years and a tolerance tradition were observed . is russia 's contacts with the muslim world . with a few short-lived exceptions , russia 's imperial government support orthodox evangelism did n't . .
hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) . the trigger was a proposed extradition law that many feared would extend the mainland ’s reach into hong kong ’s judicial system . growing concern a source has become . is the absence of any plan to bring together various protest groups and the hong kong government . two things at least would need plan such . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) , need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework .
to focus its limited funds on two simple active labor market programs : wage insurance and mobility allowance , the allocation of funds should the head of distortion address . workers whose was compensation for up to two years amounting to half the difference between the old and the new wage cut , pay could offer wage insurance . the mobility allowance could offer those moving for a new job a lump-sum payment of two months ’ gross pay in the previous job , or four months ’ pay for cross-border moves . this scheme the very simplicity will likely ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . the margin of choice for eu members about how egf funds are to be spent in their country would be minimal : focused approach such the downside is also clear .
asia ’s share was 28 % ( after including japan ) . but kharas ’s projections suggest that asia will account for two-thirds of the world ’s middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not just the west , but even other emerging regions . this is the real opportunity business . of course , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change we should expect .
traction gaining electoral is both on the far right and the far left , populist parties . some , such as france ’s national front , oppose their country ’s eurozone membership ; others , such as podemos in spain , do not . could prove to be extremely disruptive , however , the challenge that pose to europe these parties of new . a greek exit from the eurozone , together with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration – especially after the laborious efforts made to hold together the monetary union and , with it , the european dream . be across the continent rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity , and disheartening more would be such an outcome .
taken together , all these shortcomings cast serious doubt on the eu ’s claim to be leading the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . european governments repeat the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but they seem to have no comprehensive strategy for translating this into coherent policy . indeed , think about global governance reforming when europeans , they to numbers of seats and voting weights in international bodies , i limit myself . . european governments are only now reluctantly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s overall influence by pushing other powers into separate arrangements . but there is little vision beyond this , on how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , i taking place . is deliberation . .
são paulo – a decades-old legal fight between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s is nearing conclusion . in december , lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the banks . the settlement would put into the pockets of savers in reals billions if the court approves . but more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , the court-ordered restitution would also mark an official end to brazil ’s seemingly endless war on hyperinflation . during the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency .
today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industry . but this the finances of greater control has not translated . . my organization works borrow farm-related activities 13 % less money than men do in east africa . ; one measure of this deficiency is rates of borrowing . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and restrictions on agency and mobility all conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing . these barriers have social economic progress and had a dramatic impact . .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been an uncontrolled military escalation an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define the events and trends about his best commentators as in previous years . if the selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive legislation – including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” – as a display of resoluteness .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little attention : they lower the cost of capital vis-à-vis the cost of labor , which causes a relative decline in demand for labor . it certainly is not mitigating it , this is very likely the unemployment problem exacerbating . to channel part of the liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry is one solution . thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , we could use $ 60 to purchase assets and the remainder to give firms a marginal job-creation subsidy , which could be especially effective in economies with flexible labor markets that enable short-term hiring . even if only for , say , one year , the subsidy of employment were offered . , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this time .
been particularly positive , unless those countries have a high tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations is not supported by the experience of countries that have implemented the treaty . is . , what is clear . the seed treaty is cut from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it also the biosafety of car@@ ta@@ gen@@ a protocol flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering to the c@@ b@@ d mirrors . and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on liability and redress to the cartagena protocol – yet another anti-genetic-engineering screed , which accomplishes little except to frighten potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . it is overwrought , confusing , and complex – in short , inimical to innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor .
" there is , " he wrote in an echo of today 's globalization debates , " a certain situation of capitalistically disorganized economies , in which the higher culture is not victorious but rather loses in the existential fight with lower cultures . " in the center - beleaguered by left and right the anti-global reactions - a liberal commercial elite opening or globalization economic saw the products . . there among anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists , a triple division was thus . instead of a two part split between left and right . - the anti-international right moved to fascism , the left to communism - , the political spectrum became paralyzed they the interwar period did , radicalized . . for much of the post-1945 period , these divisions within national economies , re@@ distribution left fought . right disappeared .
the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is proverbial . but this month is published over how that omnipotent party makes important decisions is being lifted somewhat because a volume of unique materials about the behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 . the materials contained in that book , which i brought out of china and decided to make public , consist of hundreds of documents , including minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the most important leaders of the people ’s republic deliberated on how to handle the tienanmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on crucial telephone conversations between leaders ; classified reports from security agencies ; and dispatches from the police and military . taken as a whole , these documents provide a rare glimpse into the modus operandi of china ’s leaders . i felt it my duty to publish this record of the decisions that lay behind what happened as someone with access to the historical archive as a witness and participant in the tiananmen events .
was stifled under a blanket of enforced conformism , and mediocre party hacks set the tone where , she was a dre@@ ary oppressive . . capitalist decadence noxious form was considered . , rock and roll . a local rock band named plastic people of the universe , performing in english , was arrested in the late 1970s for “ organized disturbance of the peace . ” other western groups the rolling stones recordings were banned . and yet records were smuggled into czechoslovakia and other eastern european countries , where they were treasured by young rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the country ’s president .
the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of a self-imposed “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . and massive social , impecunious countries such as greece face is precisely dry costs . unfortunately , it is not so simple ; there is an appealing logic to saying that governments should have to balance their budgets just like the rest of us of course . governments typically have myriad ongoing expenditure commitments related to basic services such as national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention to retirees . no government can just walk away from these responsibilities overnight .
ironically , this perception brings israel some rather unlikely partners . president hosni mubarak of egypt claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , " while king abdullah of jordan has coined the axiom about a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of the shiites ” and the resulting “ sunni/shia divide ” is alleged to be creating an ever widening chasm in the region . however , what more about its advocates than the actual reality reveal , generalizations may convince at first glance . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the chaos .
worse , the consultancy mackenzie wood finds that the renewables boom has translated into only 2 % of global energy demand . as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still from 90 % today down only slightly , supply primary energy 85 % by 20@@ 40 . . the global economy core drilling down . will to complete the transition away from fossil fuels . it does not help that financial institutions in china funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green ” financing to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . they need to make a clean break ; can not keep producing oil , gas , and to cleaner technologies internal combustion engines , companies .
furthermore , with us support , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to modernization of military equipment and doctrine , an increase in the number of soldiers , and improved training . armed conflict is becoming the rebels increasingly costly as a result . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on the government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing the rebels to keep their demands realistic . at and cuba norway meetings , the farc is unlikely . focus on ending the conflict , without doctrinaire questions theoretical endless discussion will be the agenda .
yes , this because it the usual course of events falls , it is a volatile data series . . it is also how the bar high during his two terms , obama set . is another area . , but . the most positive thing that can be said about trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is that he did not deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact , as do trade relations with china and other major us partners . these are small relative to the economy , but in january on solar panels , impose tariffs . and washing machines was the administration . .
all these books are variations of the protocols of the elders of zion , the russian forgery first published in 1903 , which japanese came across after defeating the czar ’s army in 1905 . picked up the japanese modern western ideas many is the chinese . perhaps this how on as well , theories of jewish conspiracy were passed . is . but to this kind of nonsense , southeast asians are not immune . the former prime minister of malaysia , mahathir bin mohammed , has said that “ the jews rule the world by proxy .
it also closer political ties needs not just more economic ties . . be strongly accountable will running a strong emergency financing mechanism . they will to answer to a european strong parliament , have . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts , because they know that it is they who will be doing the bailing . they whatever smacks of the european integration political , you oppose anything . .
new york – striving to revive the world economy while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis has raised a knotty question : are statistics giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? we do what we measure : measurement issues have taken on increased importance in our performance-oriented world . if we have poor measures , what we strive to do ( say , increase gdp ) may actually contribute to a worsening of living standards . we may also be confronted with false choices , seeing trade-offs between output and environmental protection that do n’t exist . might show that steps taken to improve the environment are good for the economy , the economic performance of a better measure .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what is money ? how do i know i can trust that it is worth what it says it is worth ? ” we that money is a medium of exchange , introductory economics . learn . but we accept that , i do . , why ? banknotes are just attached by a number paper pieces .
holds great symbolic importance and appeal , within europe abolishing borders the idea . but sometimes even sacred cows need to be slaughtered . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the credibility of the eu as a collective entity and of its national governments ’ ability to maintain order and the rule of law , that time is now . when it was first created in 1985 , the schengen area included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) . membership has since ballooned to include 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with four of those left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) .
to behave like a peacemaker is now likely . , no doubt putin . he is not his aides of kremlin reinforcing the power is interested . . he also is important for the modernization of russia business realizes . . he simply wants the oligarchs to him , leave politics . and to stick to their sphere of activity . but the problem wo n't go away .
the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will create an opening for populists and self-declared “ illiberal ” democrats such as hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( physically as well as metaphorically ) and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . moreover , europe ’s external environment has become more dangerous . though the world ’s attention is currently fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . to believe that german cars on the streets of new york pose a threat to us national security seems really bad . , trump . he could get very ugly , very fast , and import tariffs of heavy on european cars impose .
a trade-off between competition and stability is there . indeed , greater competitive pressure may increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets and make investors more prone to panics . it may also the value of charter of the institutions erode . a bank with thin margins and limited liability does not have much to lose , and will tend to gamble – a tendency that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies . incentives to assume risk will be the result .
associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus for disease child deaths reduced vaccines . however , every 20 seconds from which can be prevented by a vaccine , pneumonia . diseases remains a child . most of them live in poor and remote communities that still lack access to the basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . this how than a child born in a low-income country to die before reaching the age of five , child born in a high-@@ income country is the reasons . is one . . fortunately , taking action is the world .
as the pioneering child psychologist jean piaget showed , children in the early stages of development go through a phase of egocentrism : they naturally focus on their own needs , and they do n’t think about the rules . a child might snatch another child ’s toy , break it , and then deny having done so . they lie to reconcile the inconsistency than admit to breaking the rules . to the child ’s mind , he is not in the wrong ; the world is simply misinformed . and he ca n't comprehend that someone else might see things differently because the child believes that everyone operates under his particular definitions of right and wrong .
it anything else , that sets the two economies apart more is this difference . . to close the gap , what can do ? how the contrast with china stunning is is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure . is its biggest shortcoming . if your products ca n’t get to the global economy , you can not conquer it . china has the system of highway five-@@ fold multiplied over the past five years .
critical thought is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public discussion . make those who feel ignored willing prey in a ignorance environment but no less than easily swayed voters must be studied because those politicians are so appealing to so many . whether can also be re@@ formulated in politics that threatens liberal democracy a brand is the question . two types of populists today : the enlightened of the exploitative is there .
demand is weak remains the last feature in this period of historically slow productivity growth . we that demand is investment crucial , corporate decision-makers know . that 47 % of companies increasing their investment budgets were doing so because of an increase in demand or demand expectations , a last year conducted in the mgi survey found . the recovery of slow in demand the financial crisis following was a key factor holding the investment across industries . the crisis investment demand consumer increased uncertainty on the future direction . .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exception ” from the normal rules of market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . the french do not care that they have never been able to articulate their vision of a “ third way , ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets in order to defend “ higher ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . that the french do not even bother to understand how markets operate is so ingrained . is this view , a quasi-marxist intelligentsia propagated since world war , . they confronted with facts less with logic , look upon economics as an ideological battleground . have been hitting hard , but facts .
health care , projected to more than double by 2040 , and they up from one-sixth in 1965 , the us federal budget consume half . with no change in course , the programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will be depleted by the 2030s . require us political leaders to constrain the growth of entitlement spending and bolster support for middle-income individuals will the outcome avoiding . while social security and medicare remain important to ensure wellbeing in retirement , their role must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that no one who has worked for 30 or more years will live in poverty in old age , social security needs a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less growth in benefits over time .
new york -- president george w. bush rightly called pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections “ a victory for [ its ] people . ” but , even as he uttered those words , his administration was working behind the scenes to subvert the will of pakistan ’s people by trying to dictate the composition of their next coalition government and prop up the election ’s biggest loser , president pervez musharraf . bush is playing a dangerous game , risking the collapse of pakistan ’s political process for the sake of his own legacy . at the polls of a message of clear , millions of pakistanis . collectively , they the rule of law , religious extremists and musharraf voted .
are not antiretroviral therapy receiving is still three of five hiv-positive people . moreover , long-term treatment is not the same as a cure , and no public-health tool ( apart from clean drinking water ) has ever matched the preventive power of a vaccine . 's a extremely complex virus hiv it within cells that enable it to emerge and replicate months or even years later , establishing lat@@ ent events . is rapidly among geographic locations in an individual . . it evades the immune system , so the body ’s natural ability to fight or clear it is limited .
should publish their research openly or before pursuing commercial interests , leave the university . the argument according similarly , employ the universities should leave product development to existing companies . it yet , like a conflict of interest often later came to be viewed as a confluence of purposes , that the university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial , it is useful . , but . for example , during the late 19 th century , as us universities began to place research at the heart of the academic mission , they forsaking their traditional pedagogical role were accused . . many professors argued that the demands of research would render their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis period , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned by the tension between what it can do and what it is allowed to do . government in the european union that is able to provide unlimited funding to governments , but its governing statute is the only institution . . however , provided the financial system liquidity large amounts , indirectly softening the pressure on government debt refinancing has the ecb . for 18 months , it has been buying government bonds – worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) – on secondary markets under its securities market program . moreover , it has provided loans to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated demand from eurozone banks for € 489 billion .
would be facing these problems even if it were not simultaneously facing a financial crisis , america . america ’s economy had been supercharged by excessive leveraging ; now comes the painful process of deleveraging . has caused credit markets to freeze is bad lending and risky derivatives combined , excessive leveraging . after all , when banks do n’t know their own balance sheets , they are n’t about to trust others ’ . ampnbsp ; the bush administration did n’t see the problems coming , denied that they were problems when they came , then minimized their significance , and , finally , panicked .
examples of countries that transformed their education systems within a generation of inspiring is korea offer south and vietnam . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho noted during our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time , but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge economy . aware of these benefits , myanmar has the agenda of reform the heart put education . one priority – to improve inclusivity – is already underway . for example , the government is currently working to encourage instruction in more local languages – more than 100 are spoken in myanmar – in rural areas .
if the compensation does not practice happen assumed by economists in theory , what but ? what if market-fundamentalist politics specifically prohibits the income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that could compensate those who suffer from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? at all is not socially optimal . in that case instead , may be socially destructive and politically explosive , policies that whether in trade , labor markets , or domestic production , , intensify competition . . this the failure of economic policy another reason highlights since 2007 . .
madrid – economic globalization , together with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has made developing countries , and many companies within them , key global economic actors . this provides a new rationale for the international framework to protect foreign investment strengthening . global foreign direct investment only a few sources : north america , the traditionally wealthy states of europe and japan flowed once upon a time . but cross-border investment from countries such as brazil , india , and china is now flowing not just to other emerging and transitional economies , but also to the “ old ” fdi-exporting states . these changes have increased the complexity of the international investment regime , and should broaden interest in developing a more effective investment-protection framework .
boil down to the same thing , because globalization is mostly a consequence of new information technology is globalization and the revolution of computer worries . made it possible to do business across cultures and continents , and to send information almost costlessly . is and internet computers . the worry is that information technology is now on the bend of a " hockey stick " curve , where it will suddenly take off at much greater speed than before . will not all be welcome in economic terms is the changes of resulting . the curves of hockey often nature occur .
copenhagen – amid a growing wave of concern about climate change , many countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and the members of the european union – passed laws in the 2000 ’s outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs . the intention was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions . the current attempt by republicans in the us congress to roll back america ’s effort to ban incandescent bulbs has revived this discussion . by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers , the agenda is driven . , i contend . is many . but it ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to tackle global warming .
trade gains states this approach . for example , the inter-american development bank reports that the trade gains from latin america ’s 33 small regional trade agreements have been meager . according to the i@@ ad@@ b that expands access across and within markets , i adopt a new strategy . is , the key to boosting those gains . this suggests that , for the uk , mega-regional trade agreements – which provide access to multiple markets , but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – are the best way forward . it 's this approach that would in well-@@ developed supply chains , than those to which a bilateral agreement would grant them access , serving much more markets . , enable uk firms to position themselves . after all .
growth patterns that systematically and ultimately on support for the strategy the loss on the loss of political and social cohesion . , exclude sub@@ founder . . that does not arise from corruption or privileged access to markets , it 's not too extreme . , income inequality is known by contrast . is viewed as crucial for equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility is like education and health care , high-quality basic services the provision . can and various parts of the global economy assess current growth patterns . against the backdrop public sector investment partly owing to fiscal constraints in overly indebted countries , and needed to restore growth . is generally below level . for starters .
it 's important to before extremist parties even arise , the line needs clearly visible . , i recognize . for starters . democratic self-defense must not appear ad if is upheld the law rule . thus the bans criteria should be spelled out in advance . one criterion that seems universally accepted is a party ’s use , encouragement , or at least condoning of violence – as was evidently the case with golden dawn ’s role in attacks on immigrants in athens . there is less consensus about parties that incite hatred and are committed to destroying core democratic principles – especially because many extremist parties in europe go out of their way to emphasize that they are not against democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ the people . ”
contributions means jet-setting fat cats help working masses , and being har@@ is headed for the national interest . for them . the second part of this argument – that the interests of ordinary people have been subordinated to those of the elite – must be heard and responded to . is not sustainable or exploited feels in which will overturned the system of entire or government to declining living standards for high unemployment find answers , elected officials clearly .
more important , and consumption wealth in china are closely related to real-estate values , not equity values . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the dollar was only 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 – far below the double-digit declines of the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . so the ren@@ min@@ bi is substantially higher relative to competes with which , the currencies . on an overall trade-weighted basis . even more relevant , the decline of the renminbi and other currencies in the past year has had very little impact on us import prices , because chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars and do not adjust them when the exchange rate changes . this is the costs of energy almost entirely due while official us data show overall import prices down 11 % in the 12 months through august .
shift to a more positive one , and spend a lot of time in a stable , no-growth equilibrium in developing countries many . automatic about nothing is there . effective leadership the catalyst was in all cases i am familiar with which . depends on policy choices and structural adjustment speed , while we can expect a multi-year process of rebalancing and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , exactly how long it will take . the process will take recovery in these countries components more missing in southern europe .
finally , to francoize work should be the eu . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the trade deficit forecast to exceed $ 7 billion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . can not borrow enough to cover this , belarus as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka does , laying the basis for rapid development once he is gone .
have extremely diverse economic and social conditions , and the wealth of very different levels in these countries for example , south koreans now enjoy a standard of living similar to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea as an “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s levels of wealth have n’t come anywhere near that of south korea , and yet they are considerably wealthier than the rest of the n-11 , some of which remain among the poorest countries in the world . at the same time , asian n-11 countries such as the philippines and vietnam have grown significantly since 2005 , while mexico ’s performance has been somewhat disappointing , and egypt ’s even more so . is $ 6.5 trillion in the current gdp nominal , and the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people .
europe finds itself without a notable ally or partner for since world war , the time of first . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and betrayal of allies represent a new norm for the world order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open support for authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , an alliance the idea mock of populist politicians based on shared values , while china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , owing to the betrayal of the kurds who had led the fight against the islamic state ( isis ) , also undercut eu interests .
be disastrous would clearly some 70 million jobs , and therefore taxpayers , from the european economy removing . leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . he the annual gdp growth to 1.8 % in the years up to 2030 , and a mere 1.3 % from then is creating a ceiling . is labor shortages . , i forecast . . comparatively few europeans seem to contest the moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere . whether the paris attacks the wake public sentiment changes or not , economic migrants are viewed more negatively .
there were some 258 million migrants worldwide , with 22.5 million people registered as refugees by the un refugee agency at last count . dwarfed if even are borne by the climate-related export most modest will be these numbers . climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 according to the organization of international . and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration – a gap that must be addressed now . so much attention received , not since 1951 have international standards for refugee protection .
lukyanivska prison , kyiv – it has been said that there are no atheists in a foxhole . i there are no atheists in prison , either have discovered . , and four half and months in a cell . when , despite unbearable pain , you are interrogated – including in your cell – for dozens of hours without a break , and an authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion , including its media , is trying to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prayer becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can have . god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend and only available family , because – deprived even of access to a trusted priest – there is no one else in whom to confide one ’s worries and hopes . in this season of love and family , a cell of prison the loneliness is almost unbearable .
but , beyond aid reductions , donors may also make it more difficult for borrowing countries to repay the aid funds they owe ( this is not limited to loans for education ) . and some donors – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank – are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans as official development assistance to enable them to meet their oda targets . this particularly for basic education toward grant-based financing , the trend is supported by the last decades few . . but in the pursuit of non-grant-based aid , a crucial public good , education should not be left . loan buy-downs can help keep the education sector “ competitive , ” and could prove to be a mechanism to leverage extra resources for education , for which capital-strapped countries may not be willing to borrow otherwise .
ultimately , the enhanced economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly in a context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of a growing pie than of a shrinking one . that focus on those who are left behind , thereby mitigating grievances , but economic growth ill-distributed is fast-paced . may be accompanied by programmes . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence is occurring in the slums of its large cities . had more attention been given to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , this population might not have chosen violence as an instrument of change . prevent conflict in the long run is our best tool . remains socio-economic progress . , let us draw the right lessons from kenya .
within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times , the water of the supply is also variable . global temperature rising is one new factor influencing water supplies . that its seasonality and the frequency of extremes may also increase , but that total annual precipitation will increase . , many scientists believe although we are not certain about the exact effects . this would use pipelines without big modifications , the existing supply infrastructure of changes difficult , i make . . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline – adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx – we see that concern about exhausting resources is not new .
qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliation , rather than any concept of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what may be the most humane of outcomes ) might be great . but arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq resulted from the almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army without pay or pension . that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s subsequent security problems . 's fortunate is some ways , libya the oil sector contribute to government revenues relatively soon should therefore relatively intact be appears . .
even aside from the insecurity of new property rights , the privatization gains uncertain at best are often . . the assumption that have value for enterprises of most state is problem . even in the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , large state ( and many private ) firms often need be broken up , restructured , merged , or shut . in former communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) big firms were misbegotten from the start . investment was almost totally guided by bureaucracies of self-serving enterprise in the communism of the last years .
yet the africans of 58 % do large numbers of people throughout the developing world lack access to electricity . . the new international initiative , called the “ electrification roadmap , ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies for achieving the mdgs , as well as from his initiative “ sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) , and was officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . these issues are governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and finance institutions of development receiving increased international attention and funding as discussions there showed . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and support . we have electrified more than four million households through a focused effort over a short period – an effort that has featured prominently in discussions held by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that has drawn interest from other developing countries .
the united nations ’ medium fertility scenario projects that the world ’s population will rise from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 . nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s could grow from 18 million to 42 million . high rates of fertility in many countries low income consequence are partly . . but runs the other way is also causation . due to it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains makes population growth excessively rapid . , high fertility rates .
there were all the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome . growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services is the economy of fast-forward to the present . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa face plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates on record and a strengthening currency . it now has the lowest sovereign spread for any country in its rating class , indicating that the wheel been asleep . is the rating agencies . , markets think . . once the north korea of europe under communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level is now 25 % that of germany .
to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war must be prepared for the us . should be an essential benchmark for normalized relations between the us and sudan is the darfur of and security peace . should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur in order to ensure that peace efforts there receive the same level of attention as the north-south efforts should pass the coming rounds of negotiation on this . is the obama administration . what is needed now is political will – and not only in the us – to sustain this diplomacy . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – in particular egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role .
however , nothing a form of dope but , to take painful measures that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth is reducing pressure . is new debt . the bankruptcy costs potential among all eurozone countries the socialization is this renewed decline in debt discipline . it is this de facto debt mutualization that has prompted creditors to accept lower interest rates , and it is only lower interest rates that have permitted renzi , samaras , valls , and the others to distance themselves from austerity policies . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for a policy ’s benefits and collectivize the costs , he will pursue the policy sooner , more quickly , and to a larger extent than he would if he had to bear the costs alone . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly europe ’s transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough .
and why has n’t the world taken note ? is as complex as indonesia itself is the story . one leading expert on indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , particularly the wayang religious tradition . according to anderson , “ in contrast to the great religions of the near east … the religion of wayang has no prophet , no message , no bible , no redeemer . … the endless variety and sharp individuality of its dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflects the variegation of human life as it is felt by the javanese ... ” ja@@ van@@ i culture helps indonesia that a new democracy throws up , handle many different voices . in short .
it is crucial to engage with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting point – a place of political , economic , and energy cooperation . in this respect , the eu ’s most valuable tools are its signature , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power . must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions is russia , too , next door . the kremlin continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintaining a strict aversion to military intervention and seeking to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base in the syrian city of tartus . that stance has translated , into repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions , most obviously aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of victims .
cairo – last week ’s visit to egypt by king salman of saudi arabia resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . egypt had to relinquish two red sea islands ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 : but the lavish aid a price came . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a lie . indeed , egypt can not even handle domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists are exploiting with much success . did the country reach this point , how ?
in a similar manner , the #bringbackourgirls campaign began online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book day speech , in which he called upon jonathan to “ bring back the pupils . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline , led by the former government minister oby ezekwesili ( who also spoke at the world book day event ) and civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . have the us , the united kingdom spread as well as to countries across nigeria , protests international media have and sit@@ -@@ ins protests reporting paid ra@@ pt attention . . the security challenge that nigeria faces dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled the safe schools initiative .
georgia walked into it , and russia set a trap in south ossetia . if the russians had used their “ peacekeeping ” force solely to protect south ossetians ’ “ self-determination ” ( citing the precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would have done little damage to their soft power , and the benefits could have exceeded the costs . by bombing , blockading , and of georgia , i occupying many parts . , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and protect georgian citizens failing , russia to legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust in much of the world , they lost their claims . . become more wary , neighbors as ukraine such . an immediate cost was poland ’s reversal of its resistance to an american anti-ballistic missile system .
but a diaspora ’s potential economic importance goes well beyond remittances . as the late historian philip curtin documented , from the beginning of urban life , millennia ago , trade typically living aliens for co-ethnic merchants involved networks . and east of greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas chinese , and the dutch india companies much of world trade organized through these networks . they faced discrimination were often weak , but these alien traders politically powerful in the host countries were sometimes . . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflects their ability to enforce contracts at long distances when the existing institutional framework could not do so reliably .
those tariffs increase companies that as an input , you use metal . costs . for example , the impact on harley-davidson is to raise costs by about $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company another $ 45 million . trump ’s signature theme is that , by helping business , he will help all americans . when government policies reduce the profitability – or threaten the existence – of a company , it is only reasonable that the people running that business should respond as they see fit .
but the selection of experts reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry ’s views . in fact , the ministry has used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public discussion , convincing scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more concerned about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effects of a negative demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ” for more than two decades – a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation – japan has retained its position as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
the risk is that we but are drowning in a sea of data with so many genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out in fact . all living organisms complex the units of basic functional , it should be remembered , are cells , not genes . and maps maps of cells talk to each other we need what . how different many cells are complex in our job of first . i c. elegans say think we can now . .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the spring of 1989 , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , seems to have been the anti-communist revolt that failed . as the brutal crackdown on and following june 3-4 played out , political freedom was being won in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then , beginning that fall , in east germany , czechoslovakia , bulgaria , and , albeit violently and rather undemocratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union , cracked open by mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms , finally imploded . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader . at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur .
it is that the american model can not work in europe because it is socially reprehensible and , in any case , poised to crash any day now , a short step , but , from here . confirmed confirmed to trim , roll back or blow up the continent 's obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians see no way . on the debate the other side in today 's europe they see only hints of a possibility – a glass far less than half full – for reform and restructuring , and are impatient at europe 's slow progress . the attack on the state and its allies in an ossified supply side and the dinosaurs of industrial stake holders , is widening , but europe a painfully slow pace is moving . , true . . this war new fronts are every day opening .
they simply need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . there is no reason – and no excuse – to leave the survival of millions to unpredictable weather conditions . must productivity improving efficiency take control . , countries progress been made has is sure . private-sector investment in agriculture have reduced regulatory obstacles . is some governments of african .
europeans may be more cheerful , believing that the chinese market will open not only for european engineering products and machine tools to equip the new workshop of the world , but also for luxury goods and even the tourism demanded by a new and affluent chinese middle class . feels that is under way is a seismic shift . , everyone . not unprecedented , but is the rapid rises of industrial . the most interesting analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19th century and japan ’s in the 20th . england was the economic wunderkind of europe even prior to that time .
to switch roles with putin after the march elections , the current president expects . , everyone . but waiting in the wings is who could replace medvedev , former finance minister alexei kudrin should russia need a sincerity factotum about economic reform . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence might just buy putin some extra time . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario . that , as financial uncertainty grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many , and he has already made russia stronger . , the once and future president says .
this as did n't have to live with the consequences , banks , a surge in low-quality lending . over time . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , volume is its own reward , even if this means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . the share of “ weakest links ” – corporates rated b - or lower ( with a negative outlook ) – in overall activity has risen markedly since 2013-2015 . furthermore , not only are the newer issues coming from a lower-quality borrower , the covenants on these instruments – provisions designed to ensure compliance with their terms and thus minimize default risk – have also become lax . about 80 % of the outstanding volume account now are on the rise . is covenant-lite issues .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on matters that in recent years some indian mandarins have preferred to duck – for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark serious violence in an area where indian un peacekeepers are already serving . also during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the un peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal will be addressed . before long , the council will also have to consider the implications of the likely commencement of a us troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct importance to india ’s national security . issues like sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world ’s response to a likely change of leadership in north korea , will almost certainly appear on the council ’s agenda as well . all are matters that call for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or reflexive solidarity with “ non-aligned ” countries .
have turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians nearing middle age is the opposition politics years . that if they to succeed , i 'm tested myself . will be practicality . . within his own party ranks , not from his opponents . , i emerge . will be one problem or@@ ban . many members have never been subjected to the whip of party , the fact that fidesz has increased its number of parliamentarians from 20 before the election to 129 . moreover , were not so long ago , collapsed right wing parties , these new fidesz mps large number .
it 's the opponents of liberalism who most effectively , i are holding it . , but . that underpin it have become sauvage , the liberal institutions , and globalization shall be provided as the far-right french presidential candidate . nationalism and traditionalism , meanwhile , have become sources of positive emotion , even if those emotions – nostalgia and a völkisch sense of belonging – are ever-shifting sands . must tap into passions of their own if to survive as a guiding framework for international relations is liberalism . without disregarding logic and ethics – areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine the alternative – liberals must connect with people on an emotional level .
was devised in 1893 is the study of this sequence . i ignores the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century , and it is obsolete , pedagogically disastrous , i believe . . . other industrial nations may through the essential coherence of p-@@ p-@@ b sequence missing , pieces of the disciplines , cycle . should begin with physics , not biology , studying science . in motivating them with a sense of the mathematics power , studying physics , students study algebra simultaneously . .
revenue taxes had been used only sporadically to raise funds for wars until then . but the economy a systemic , permanent feature became the income tax in 18@@ 42 . that it would destroy incentives and bring the economy to a halt , the time many rejected the policy . fortunately , the cry and hue went unheeded . owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining worldwide .
indeed , it might merely postpone the inevitable , but the euro sticking and all of the adjustments in wages risks forcing greater unrest . governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of the newly agreed fiscal guidelines ( if they are ratified ) . such agreements history does not inspire yourself while talk is tough now . before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu stability and growth pact ’s ( sgp ) deficit limits . in the us , the 1980 ’s deficit limits set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law were not met , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended .
between the mtfa , the efsm , and payments to third countries , the total exposure this year is € 70.5 billion . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period may while a budget of balanced upholding the medium-term objective , be possible . such leveraging of the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the successor to the efsm ) and the mtfa . an anticipated disbursement of eu funds applying given the option . should be receiving by countries . following a request by a member state , the commission would be entitled to borrow on capital markets under the implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum amount determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue to kill whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than environmentalists ’ opposition to it . is not necessary for the japanese better nutrition of the health , eating whales . it is a tradition that they wish to continue , presumably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . do have so easily is not dismissed . is one argument . is the japanese . they claim that western countries object to whaling because , are a kind of special of animal for them , whales , as cows are for hindus .
the sales of shares increased taxes on capital gains realized abolition . providing companies with urgently needed liquidity while disentangling the traditional ownership network stepped . is international equity funds . germany the legs of last is , inc. . the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are being scaled down to an efficient size and that the capital market is able to do its job , improving the allocation of resources . the bad news is that financial capital is moving abroad to finance other overblown conglomerates .
to where we were two years ago but with an overlay of recrimination and mistrust , i be back . would likely be suspended . desirable is n't is drift , even absent such developments . to increase the number of nuclear weapons in its arsenal and make some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems without overt testing , use the passage of time . could be north korea . the north korea with a handful of inefficient warheads and inaccurate missiles and one , armed with dozens of advanced guns capable of a big difference is there . any realistic policy must begin with what complete and fully verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect any time soon is the reality . at this point .
fortunately , the bond markets are dead , and it might take a year to revive them . it difficult to invest too large amounts of money in russian securities makes their absence . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy . are recognized all stupidities , and when all disasters have occurred . marked that dividing line for russia , august 1998 .
they walked , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned and tweeted with compatriots , motivated in part by social demands – above all for their own empowerment . could hardly be starker is open protest and saudi arabia this dynamic space contrast . a system of petrified living , saudi women find himself . shrouded , forcibly hidden is the faces of women . ; the royal family faces are seen everywhere . we do n't see modernity experienced as a problem such else in the world .
you 'll have to all the well-known economic benefits of global division of labour division forgo in this scenario . is of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement between these two extremes we can the market or the state during capitalism over the last two centuries history , it identify important . . for example , the uk in 1846 the corn laws the repeal and favored a free market in international trade the pen@@ du@@ lum swung back toward the state after wwi .
comes to natural disasters managing has a international reputation . , japan . but the “ perfect storm ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , and the resulting meltdown of three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , went beyond any scenario previously envisaged . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plan for the situation that they faced in the contaminated areas , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiency and poor communication , particularly with regard to radiological risk . effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk and limit the potential hazard from consumption of contaminated foodstuffs despite such problems . local communities initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated zones ( for example , kindergartens and schools ) , in parallel with efforts by the japan atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop the technology for remediation within these zones .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing to a close . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs . kirchner ’s successor , his widow cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . she recently suffered a heavy defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening its chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . she is now in poor health to remove a subdural hematoma in her brain is following surgery . , facing a legislative election . in addition .
the three new agencies settle disputes between national supervisors be permitted . will will not only enforce common technical standards , which may eventually become binding throughout the eu if endorsed by the european commission . . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency – such as the one we are in currently – the eu agencies might exceptionally be given a position of predominance over national supervisory authorities . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are exactly the future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . the eu will lose if while in bad times national taxpayers pick up the tab , decisions about national financial institutions systemically important are made at the european level . . would to prevent another crisis , i be unlikely . , such an arrangement , but we would not be able to tell the difference .
this week , there were two more attacks on schoolchildren both in afghanistan , one at a girls ’ school , where staff were bludgeoned and bombs set off , and the other at a neighboring boys ’ school , where a classroom was sprayed with bullets . unknown remains casualties in both assaults number . against education , there 's a war . : but the cause is all too well known . are growing up in conflict zones , like the afghan-pakistan border , the fringes of myanmar , and south sudan , i including places . is more than 28 million out-of-school children . all of them are vulnerable to extremist violence .
one by the publication of a book in which the copenhagen consensus economists boil down their insights has been slightly worse . in this task hopes . . here ’s one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami is matched each month by the number of worldwide casualties of hiv/aids . would cost $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives is providing and information about safe sex for free or cheap condoms to the regions worst affected by hiv/aids is a comprehensive prevention program . . makes it the best investment single that the world could possibly make , this say the economists who the copenhagen consensus took part . . costs by 40 to one outweigh would be the benefits of social .
louis uchitelle of the new york times quotes the highly intelligent catherine mann commenting on the " co-dependent relationship … between the us and its trading partners , " which might " last for quite some time , " because " the us and its main trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . " their central banks have piled up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets , and the value of dollar are actually eager for other export-oriented east asian economies , japan . as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai , it means the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities . is the government of china . have grown a lifestyle of comfortable accustomed after all of the ruling communist oligarchs urban unrest to call their positions into question is mass unemployment . is they want the last thing .
washington , dc – not long ago , the separation of financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries – like the united kingdom and australia – went so far as to unbundle these functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial supervisory issues altogether . however , macroeconomic management to reunite have been forced . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis . that asset-price cycles must be taken into account for both macroeconomic management and financial supervision is the growing recognition consequence . is this rapprochement . by many as basically harmless or , at least , as a relatively insignificant monetary-policy channel , asset-price cycles were seen before the crisis .
seoul – if you chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both will escape . pursue both growth and distributional fairness , do : are required . , and this is exactly many governments . few policy tools can simultaneously help to achieve both , and though not incompatible , the two objectives are entirely different from one . . trade policy matters a lot . , this idea . much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth .
about the us and the eu , the ttip is not just . negotiating canada , mexico with the eu has a f@@ ta . . at some point , and t@@ tip nafta will to be harmonized , need . meanwhile , the world ’s other countries – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering how the ttip would affect each of them . one possibility , suggested by my ex-colleague , former us trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus for rekindling the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheet , especially in the eurozone . to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) should be implemented . in addition , a full banking union , starting with eurozone-wide deposit insurance , should be initiated , and moves toward greater political integration must be considered , even as greece leaves the eurozone . it is fixated on the credit risk to which its taxpayers would be exposed with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration resists all the key policy measures . , unfortunately , germany . rising a disaster of eurozone probability and it is not threatening global economy for the only one , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst .
this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries next to impossible . of course , his india intentions china claims are peaceful . for example , it contends that its efforts to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy are aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , a maritime trade route that is perceived as a choke point for the chinese economy . but actions speak louder than words – and the message that china ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be taking advantage of the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over a broad expanse of asia ’s oceans .
european opponents of georgia and ukraine map argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . are political and judicial reforms their records , and too many internal conflicts linger . the automatic right to nato membership does not required . but the map process . would put georgia and ukraine heavy demands , maps both would have to answer a lot of difficult questions and convince others that they are able to live up to nato ’s democratic requirements before being allowed to join .
but , like donald trump , it was le pen who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , was depicted as a puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . so what do if anything mean left and right ? whatever something shifted in the last decades of the twentieth century , little doubt . is there . left-wing parties began to lose – in some countries more quickly than others – their base in the industrial working class . ethnic and sexual minorities social emancipation became increasingly important . is redistribution of wealth .
to possess a significant arsenal that will pose a meaningful threat to the us is one risk that north korea will over the next few years . another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons given the north korean threat and their diminished confidence in the reliability of the us and its guarantees to protect them with its nuclear forces . a preventive war trigger could to acquire nuclear weapons . even if such war would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in a crisis , nuclear arsenals multiple presence were avoided . “ use them or lose them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict when capabilities are not sufficiently robust to absorb an attack and still be able to mete out the sort of devastating retaliation essential for effective deterrence .
at a summit meeting in 2013 at the sunnylands retreat in california , president barack obama showed china ’s president xi jinping the evidence that members of the chinese military had been stealing industrial technology . accepted the evidence that the chinese government would not assist in such theft in the future , and other forms was different . is the chinese . the new n@@ ss stresses that further steps to stop it will be taken by the us government . since that is not enough to stop other chinese theft of us civilian and military technology . when it turns to specific trade policies , the nss emphasizes that the us will seek to “ break down trade barriers and provide americans with opportunities to increase their exports . ” welcome feature is , this emphasis on increasing exports , rather than reducing imports .
that the us was in decline , and this represented a shift in the balance of global power . , many chinese concluded . but conflict lead is possible for such nar@@ ra@@ tives . led the part of latter of 2009 and 2010 to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior is overconfidence in assessing its power . china miscalculated by deviating from the smart strategy of a rising power and violating deng ’s dictum that china should proceed cautiously and “ skillfully keep a low profile . ” after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relations with the us , japan , india , and other countries , they decided to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy .
but the country the recipient of record-breaking support from international fund become has running into trouble . since then . for the simple reason that not enough has changed since the last debacle has fallen into crisis . , argentina . as such , the country ’s economic and financial foundations have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . although they have been committed to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial authorities have also made several avoidable mistakes . the central bank has squandered its credibility at key moments , and have been fiscal discipline and structural reforms .
foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it had already started is very few . ; mixed results , at best attempts to predict the future . the fact that rely on out-of-date , incomplete , or flawed data many of the leading indicators used to measure the economy lies is the trouble . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp on the basis of initial monthly estimates of quarterly gdp – a statistic that is often substantially revised as more data become available . forecasts remain behind reality as a result . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of the forecasters who contribute to the survey of professional forecasters predicted a decline in gdp in the remaining months of the year ; in fact , gdp plunged more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drops on record .
the first significant conflict which involves no considerations of strategy , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology for one side at least is kosovo fighting . the west is fighting a war over principles , a war , as president clinton put it , " to end a moral tragedy . " to stop an epidemic , the carriers of which in 20th century europe have been nazism , communism , fascism , and now , nationalism is an attempt at issue . nato , for the time of first , has another country internal affairs intervened . this whatever downgrades the sovereignty of states the idea and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations , nato policy is significant changes . .
building codes already earthquakes and fire dangers guard . green buildings mandating are now . , far-@@ sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore . that governments have a role in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and helping build industry capacity , policymakers know . california ’s latest building and appliance standards are expected to avoid the need for five large power plants in the next 10 years . buildings last for decades , so decisions made today have our consumption of energy long-term impact .
as new un sanctions were implemented earlier this month , he failed . , however , the effort to american strategy clearly preempt . as the deal was intended to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why was there so much outrage in the us and the west ? i it is because in setting global policy on iran , i rejected its primacy . , the us found herself . , i fear . . instead of trying to explore the possibilities presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , the us quickly pushed the un security council for more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . against the sanctions resolution , non-@@ permanent members of the council of security to vote this forced brazil and turkey .
they divide debt-to-gdp ratios under 30-60 % , 30 % , and 90 % into the following categories : chose without explanation . . that growth rates only somewhat in all of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio increases decline in the last category , and it means . the issue of reverse causality is there . tend to increase for what the economic trouble are , countries is debt-to-gdp ratios . if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios correspond to lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid a higher ratio , as keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance .
will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty to immature technologies shift , forcing people . . this is also why the world is much further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . the international energy agency estimates this will reach only 4.1 % by 2040 , and they the global energy of 1 % currently deliver . vaclav smil , who is bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , says that “ claims of a rapid transition to a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , ” adding that “ even a greatly accelerated shift towards renewables would not be able to relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to the global energy supply anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 . ” many of today ’s panicky political declarations and climate protests are driven by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us we have just 12 years left to save the planet .
in african countries circulating will automatically translate working in rich countries for fewer africans into money . the decline in remittances , however , cuts both ways . africa many parts have long red inflation . , remittances . for instance , cares little about a kampala beer the cost , a ugandan doctor working in norway . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local doctor for services and , of course , a home in uganda .
on the avoidance of risk , which is undermining private-sector confidence in investing in innovation is placed . is better in europe by contrast . the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . it to mitigate all risk , so aiming for this is not feasible is impossible . , but . should be used judiciously and rationally , balancing potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technology might offer , the precautionary principle . economic interactions of the risk notion
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different and possibly contradictory expectations from the indirect negotiations that the united states has pushed both sides into beginning . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for arabs to give their blessing to the talks . it is clear that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the start of indirect talks without freezing settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem is a sort of victory . just to remind the world of this , as the indirect talks were preparing to get off the ground , israel ’s government approved a decision to break ground on 112 housing units in a settlement south of bethlehem , and 1600 new settlement units in east jerusalem . for palestinians , the return to talks , albeit indirect , is focused on a issue of strategic : borders .
for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment `` thou shall not intervene , '' the crucial feature of globalization hazard is market failure . market failure highlights circumstances in which government intervention and socially desirable is unlike moral hazard . is only a episode of such , that the failure of international capital markets led to sudden and devastating capital outflows after 1996 . consider other devastating events that are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate assistance in the us for example .
thus , although european countries remained democratic , the eu institutions , the crucial decisions sovereignty was transferred where , democracy-free have remained . as who controls money and interest rates controls the politics of europe , british prime minister , she explained her last parliamentary appearance . is as margaret thatcher . handing europe ’s money and politics to a cartel administration did not only spell the end of european democracy ; it has also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic results . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . that double down on authoritarianism in order to stick to their failed policies when recessionary economic forces strengthen leads european leaders . .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst scenarios foresaw . nearly six months later , the total damage remains difficult to estimate . continue for unrest and confusion social , as well as the fukushima radiation leaks nuclear power plant , another blow of huge : another downgrade of its bond ratings has absorbed . and now . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at only their fourth-highest level .
many of them could still evade defensive systems , even if can not be iranian missiles the accuracy . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all the primitive missiles launched from gaza . moreover , the iranian regime proxy forces network has forged across the region . . have become crucial links in an iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon is iraq and syria . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shia militias , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon and has thousands of rockets ready to target israel .
begin to relate to rasheed as a filmmaker rather than as a representative of his country is that at every us screening of his film , audiences need to apologize before they , ra@@ she@@ ed notes . “ personally , i do not ask anything ; i ’m here to clear up some confusion by the medium of film . ” the most intellectually inclined of the arab countries is known . is ravaged by war and now shaken daily by violence , iraq . . as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region often repeat : “ books are written in egypt , printed in lebanon , and read in iraq . ” here is hoping that raheed and his colleagues continue to build up an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; and here is hoping that the relationship of us and international audiences to rasheed goes from one of expiation to one of engagement with his work .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to create an open , market-oriented economy has corruption and ren@@ t-@@ seeking fueled . and , as recent european post-crisis experience has shown , it interests have captured the system of regulatory when , the structural reforms is very difficult . . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign – often misrepresented as a power grab – since assuming office in 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two types of cyclical macroeconomic risks . where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates rise and fall together , it means from the business cycles in advanced , market-based economies . is the first risk .
moreover , trade also carries society much broader benefits . been shown to and life child mortality reduce , owing to increased incomes and better information is economic globalization . in the us , the half-century of past trade has longevity significantly increased . in uganda , in 35 years past more trade has to lengthen the average lifespan by 2-3 years been shown . . what ’s more , “ free trade is good for the environment , ” to quote one academic study .
the permanent structured cooperation in the field of defense – agreed by the european council last december – is a good place to start , with countries increasing , for example , joint strategic planning at the european level . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to the acceptance of migrants , member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . it is difficult for 27 sovereign countries to act as one , there 's no question . but , as tempting as it may be , trying to paper over differences or avoid dissent – let alone destroying the compact at the core of the european project – will not make matters any easier . to build unity is through a realistic and gradual effort . is the only way to get where europe needs to go .
the media are under attack like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents to be sure . added to a grim global tally , and since the fall of the taliban is the slaying of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in that killed 25 people in back-to-back suicide bombings , . only a handful of the perpetrators have brought justice been , and the world was murdered in 15 years reporters without borders according . fresh hope glimmers and yet . in encouraging ways , i fighting back . is their supporters and journalists around the world .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for most of the world ’s income but only 15 % of its population . more opportunities have were lifted , and are wealthier , healthier . , billions of people . future historians may well remember this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . almost no one saw it yet not so long ago . unforeseen cor@@ o@@ ll@@ aries has is the megatrend of unanticipated .
in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would enable germany to control poland . indeed , it responded to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as tools of western power , stalking horses for american or german interests that would ultimately exploit ordinary poles . the community government emphasized how incoherent the opposition was , in a marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , conservative catholics , and nationalists , the tensions owing at the same time . helping wedges between the groups of various what was backing who polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview is today .
ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio of female mps is the union of inter-parliamentary . are only as bad for a mere 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of which have no female members at all , at the government of lower levels , things . as the leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches to choose more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he may choose to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring in more women ) . it for key party posts are arch-conservatives who advocate that women stay at home and take care of children , some of the women are selected for his cabinet . , i worrying . is .
medical and economic progress it will be fulfilled offers hope . , and one of our deepest wishes is living a long time . . the average human lifespan could or more mid-@@ century reach 90 years . , i say . is some scientists . if our granted wish , what but ? is a longer life if we can not maintain our standard of living , what good ? we do not know whether it will really happen , planning for enhanced longevity is the difficulty of fundamental . .
so , in introducing a new style of governance , exemplified by appointments of merit-based cabinet , jokowi must to alienate the political and business elites who have long benefited from their tight grip on power , be careful . . to reach across the divide of political , have will to form a national consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model . has a independence reputation from partisan and religious politics , and communicating with the people is a talent . , jokowi and , as a political outsider , he is in a unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , united future – and vault himself into the country ’s pantheon of great leaders .
that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've already been at an un@@ controlled escalation military an interest for decades after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define 12 months of the coming , its commentators as in previous years . it will weigh on the present for many years to come , what happens in 2020 is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection .
act as the watchdog of systemic-risk is body . is too political imf . the fsb a reform of fundamental should be performed by the next g-20 summit . it should give an international treaty enshrined , a legal personality to the fsb . by the bank for international settlements in basel , there was no formal status and only a small , though high-quality , permanent staff . , the board . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers to direct the other standard setters , review the implementation of standards by individual countries , and publish the results .
in the west , he attracted attention . is also the case . support of the women rallied , dozens of pop stars from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna . of course , pussy riot could hardly as musicians , i be classified . . they in creating visual images , he were more interested . . to the spectacle , they were secondary . is both the chants of feminist and the primitive chords .
the department of petroleum resources ( dpr ) , the regulatory agency for the oil industry , has dismissed these claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that flout the deadline . in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts permitting the oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment before sharing profits . now , following the companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of oil policy want nigeria to get a larger slice of the pie . that also the oil companies bridge the shortfall tap capital markets . , i demanding . means ending government co-financing . . moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr ’s head , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , and transform the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate the market in the gulf of guinea and other emerging regions .
moscow – in the wake of the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” was launched . the monitoring of domestic media and ordinary citizens was also confirmed by many countries . ; but were not the whole of it , the us-led military invasions of afghanistan . . governments said , would have to be curtailed for the sake of security , expression privacy and personal freedom . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror regulations have often been used as a tool to muffle the voices of those who offer independent or alternative views , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s government . by using security as a pretext to flout russia ’s media legislation , which explicitly protects journalists from censorship , the government has undermined journalism considerably .
but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your representative owes you , not his industry only , but his judgment , and he betrays , instead of serving you , if he sacrifices it to your opinion . ” the major referendums this year the campaigns of populist have the important respects differed . for example , colombian opponents of the peace deal appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the military and the farc , not to national particularism , as in the uk and the netherlands . nonetheless , they have all been that they oppose , scuttle governments and institutions motivated by a desire . . they all been willing to resort to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims , and to follow the tradition of dictators . have , and .
to a bookish young man , allen , who gets the girl is the intellectual of anxious , was a kind of role model . but now that we know the accusations against the comedian and movie director , we are forced , in scott ’s view , to reappraise the work in that light . there may we should take into account , and be something like the films . . because the artist can not be separated from his art , an artistic work can behavior alleged bad . this is at least a more interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified just because we do n’t like the way the artist behaved in private .
and being prosecuted as well is public officials . guatemala 's former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign and was subsequently jailed for corruption . indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto was also forced to resign , after he was caught attempting to extort money from a subsidiary of the mining company freeport-mcmoran . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes has just sentenced the country ’s former minister of energy and mineral resources , jero wacik , to four years in prison . a role of larger has played . , journalism .
the maneuvers of the ideal mix and sequencing agree with most economists . a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” entails a combination of internal reforms , financing , and judicious use of the market pricing mechanism . but what looks good in theory has proved difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , politicians are more likely to continue increasing their countries ’ reliance on financing , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market adjustments , than they are to implement difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustments . many countries have that have aggravated possibly avoidable , painful disruptions is endured in output and , in the worst cases , eroded potential growth for this reason .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article based on a secret document that reveals how breakaway areas of eastern ukraine are “ being treated as parts of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” one that illuminates the frustration being expressed by the ukrainian government in new light of 2 peace negotiations cast the ongoing min@@ sk . is the revelations . the document obtained by bild is a report from an october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission for the provision of humanitarian aid for the affected areas in the southeast of the regions of donetsk and luhansk . ” it describes how the meeting ’s attendees did not just focus on humanitarian assistance , but rather served as a sort of shadow government . working groups cooperating with russian authorities were set up to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade .
let us be very clear , too , about “ renegotiating the terms of membership , ” the refuge of those who want to leave but want to persuade people that it really is just an adjustment of the relationship . when , in the course of the “ adjustment , ” the going gets very rough ( as it will ) , they will say , “ well , it ’s a pity , but now it seems that adjustment is not enough . ” if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relationship with europe , there should be no doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners will bring to that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of politeness . will not accommodate us , but they wo n't thank us .
it is also drive development and progress requires contributions and talents . depriving continent . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” showing the world how to do it is scholars of many african . , and gender equity in stem is achievable . programs that offer support scholarships to achieve parity in the sciences are among the best ways . , but they need help . the causes of africa ’s stem gender imbalance are often compared to a leaky pipe : girls start out with interest and aptitude , but drop out of the disciplines at various points in their education .
and however farfetched a global currency may sound , recall that before world war i , ditching the gold standard seemed equally implausible . 's risky and inefficient , both is the current system . different monies are not who pockets full of unspendable foreign coins arrive home . , tourists only a nuisance . global firms waste time and resources on largely futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only the banks that act as middlemen ) . would be enormous is the world of national currency ridding benefits .
a comprehensive counterproposal engage international community is what they done have n't . their offer – which would have to go much further than the 2002 arab peace initiative or a portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – could even incorporate the kushner plan as part of the transition to a final settlement . in the past , transitional agreements have amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could be transformed into “ auspicious gradualism . ” after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically boosting the peace settlement ’s chances of long-term success .
is perhaps even more worrisome in this reason , and is not political manipulation an example . by modernist muslim intellectuals , who insisted that the punishment was justly applied and can not be questioned because it has divine sanction , her sentence was supported . these who their goals of islamicizing the state are happy . is former idealists are not policy . . support the pas are anti-umno . is most . as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between an islamic lobby that presses for greater “ talibanization ” of the country and the rising voices of international critics , who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power .
the us would , of course , need to respond to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta in order to preserve its own role in global trade – and in the supply chains that dominate the asian economies . it would likely to get the infant trans-pacific partnership , the trade agreement that president barack obama to last year , we committed us . and expand , seek . the us would support japan to join the tpp , because the us might want a united asia-pacific economic community , rather than asia pacific and division in particular . because japan would not want to be disconnected from the us for strategic reasons , it might indeed accept america ’s invitation . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would to bridge a asia of sino-centric and a us-centered pacific find some means . , have .
as the premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe ’s discussion of fiscal policy , trade policy , and demographic transition . but it thus can not reach forcefully beyond its jurisdiction is hemmed in politically , it makes important technical contributions a number to various debates . this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a group of nation states that have not yet decided whether they prefer greater unity or greater devolution . the fundamental problem fear of rocking the boat politically , and thus its inability to play the role of chief economist is deep . for the boj . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-normal influence .
these results were foreshadowed by a study last year , by anne case and angus deaton , which showed that life expectancy was on the decline for large segments of the population – including america ’s so-called angry men of the rust belt . but , with the incomes of the bottom 90 % having stagnated for close to a third of a century ( and declining for a significant proportion ) , the health data simply confirmed that things were not going well for very large swaths of the country . and things little better were elsewhere . , while at the extreme of this trend , america could be . . but their form were far less obvious , if it seemed clear that there would be political consequences . just when the economy seemed to be , he had the us backlash . , why ?
aside from the annapolis talks , which seem to be going nowhere because of the parties ’ irreconcilable differences over the core issues , all the other peace efforts are more tactical than strategic . to happen , i expect . , in none of them do the conditions yet exist for an immediate leap from war to peace , nor do the parties . it would the hamas cease-fire to political talks turn requires bold statesmanship . . indeed , both israel and the united states are adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as a resistance movement merely to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal requirements . for israel , the cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetric war like the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps .
specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro and re-adoption of the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark – and possibly of the franc – relative to the euro . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to retain the euro in its truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or franc . regardless of their decision , the price competitiveness of the eurozone ’s weaker economies would improve considerably . of course , france and germany would need to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability .
preserving the zoroastrian fire temples point made in 1979 the islamic revolutionaries . iran has boasted of some of the greatest poets , writers , and scientists in the world in its muslim era . none of this would have been possible if iran ’s ancient muslim rulers had not allowed academic freedom and the free exchange of ideas and expression – something that is sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down hard on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just about anyone who has ideas and wants to exchange them with others . for these rulers of muslim , intellectuals bombarding their regimes with intellectualism are new terrorists . .
the leadership group would thus constitute an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , and it would provide a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . distinguish it from existing arrangements would be us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders the ties of direct . initially , the leadership group could include representatives from a core group of states – for example , france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly empowered by and connected to their presidents and prime ministers . to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe and within existing structures , the leadership group should include a representative from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . the leadership group ’s first priority would be to address the current crisis .
albeit at a substantially lower level as some loss of confidence in the eventually will revive , supporting economic activity and stabilizing real house prices , and will fall the fall in inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates . . finally , there are two major differences between the 1930 ’s and the present . the industrial world is now far more dependent on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . a major factor will be its reversal , and the current recession was a major cause . . the other crucial difference is that we know enough not to repeat the errors – particularly trade protectionism – of the 1930 ’s .
of poverty , billions of people around the world were lifted . , and scientists continue to surprise us with amazing discoveries . but dark clouds have the horizon formed . millions of refugees social cohesion straining , and fleeing wars and hunger , and terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ grim truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” will always be in tension with reality , our expectations .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what it could mean on the ground – which remains to be seen as inspectors begin to flow into syria and , we hope , chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to be destroyed . rather , the agreement ’s main significance consists in the fact that it was struck at all : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva , that most traditional of diplomatic venues , and cut a deal on an issue of intense mutual interest . will , one hopes , begin a new era in which the us and russia work together on other pressing global issues as well , and from syria , remove chemical weapons . . if to work properly in the future is now almost dysfunctional , the international system . , a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential . that , lo and behold , there are other ways to solve problems than by dropping bombs , the agreement on syria could accomplish something else .
are distributed global capitalism the benefits is in a much better position than labor because capital mobile is , capital . exists , moving it is difficult once plant ; moreover , in the global system than industrial capital , financial capital is situated . . to be sure , multinational corporations enjoy flexibility in transfer pricing and can exert pressure at the time they make new investment decisions , but their flexibility does n’t compare to the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . at the periphery at the center of the global economy is also advantage . , there .
the price for lack of a more fundamentals-based approach to thinking about the equilibrium price of oil watching five-year has long de@@ faul@@ ted . , i know . as i explained in january 2015 , the brent crude oil spot price is speculative fluctuations less subject , and is thus underlying commercial supply and demand factors a purer approximation . the chart i prepared – which was made before the latest oil-price acceleration in early november – shows the five-year forward oil price picking up after a period of some stability . with the spot price having now moved above the five-year forward price , one could conclude that is underway for a change of trend . for my part , i ’m unsure ; but i would n’t be surprised if it happened .
the dpj ’s only reason for being , however , is its anti-ldp stance , while the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes the privatizations of the koizumi era . that does not amount to a coherent government program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quickly revealed the dpj ’s fundamental hollowness . but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s government is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . this should not surprised anyone have . the dpj was established in 1998 as a “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people who had abandoned the ldp , including hatoyama himself , and the former socialist party .
without a greater or lesser degree of participation of all the state 's institutions , preparation of the state effective defense is unthinkable . understands defense in the first place importance in in the defense effort only insofar as society , a democratic state it that defending the state means first and foremost defending the human dignity of every one of us is therefore remind us time and again necessary . . the new republics of no visible concrete or enemy face , the region at present . consider defense expenditures a luxury , if not the money of a waste of outright as a result .
more investment could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . investment in soil research greater could also have spillover benefits for african economies . the resulting research could spur the formation of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries leading to and licenses patents . vouch for spillover benefits the power from this type of research , i can personally . led us with several agricultural companies pursuing the rights to commercialize products from the technology to the issuance of three is on soil microbes at auburn my work .
it was rigid ideological diplomacy made the us in the equation of american-iranian . was left out of the madrid peace conference , but backed the us during the first gulf war . , iran . iran also to depose the taliban in afghanistan , his war supported america . . and , when us forces overran saddam hussein ’s army in the spring of 2003 , the encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would put all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . the iranians also stop obstructing the peace process israeli-arab pledged .
the us military superiority pursued has long . at the same time . it was the missile treaty 1972 anti-ballistic in 2002 . it has embarked on conventional forces a build-up of massive and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal and recently . still , russia , china , and the rest of the world wo n’t allow a return to us hegemony . putin recently made this clear by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ”
but the treaty of lisbon of the structure failed in copenhagen . the eu other problems has several beyond the failure in copenhagen . it be perceived globally as supercilious , petulant , and prim tends . 's almost everywhere in its know-it-all attitude with only 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) and composed mainly of post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly seen as marginal .
become good , both force locally and globally have a better ability . but further companies . the power of purchasing will lead changes to the packaging if wal@@ mart decides that it will not allow wasteful packaging in a company the size of us . the same is and labour practices wages true . when the world ’s biggest companies and most well recognized brands take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers and make a firm commitment to act on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those that operate in an ethical manner and seek to improve the lives of all who are associated with the manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their products will benefit from kudos , more business , or simply not being singled out as a bad actor .
simply put , western countries ’ current approach is not working . this can pakistan , my country be seen most clearly . . these us on the ground the process of delivery are largely reduced . despite massive increases in aid dollars in recent years , including billions authorized by former president barack obama . 40 ngos of international associated with roughly 70 separate local aid offices is there . but outside the country made is how to spend the money they receive , most decisions .
the same corruption of purpose is causing the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewable energy sources . in his meeting with the ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not lead to the undesired effect of a spiral of extreme climate changes due to a catastrophic rise in global temperatures , harsher environments , and increased levels of poverty . ” he noted that the oil companies are engaged in “ the continued search for new fossil fuel reserves , whereas the paris agreement clearly urged keeping most fossil fuels underground . ” and he reminded the executives that , “ civilization requires energy , but energy use must not destroy civilization ! ” francis the dimension of moral of the problem underscored :
ravaged in papua new guinea the people of aboriginal throughout the twentieth century , and a nearly identical disease . there are both kur@@ u scrapie and . kuru was transmitted through cannibalistic rituals that were commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy cattle infected cattle made bone food meat were fed . . the resulting epizootic ( animal epidemic ) affected more than 280,000 cows .
this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their homes ’ market value . from every angle , the extremity of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit do not need it , and those who do can not get it – is highly problematic . if left unattended , it leads to a gradual , and then accelerated , renewed deleveraging of the economic system , with the highest first-round costs – a longer unemployment and growth crisis – borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer them . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , healthy balance sheets for even those would be a deleveraging world economy of their disengagement , impacted . . all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system .
everywhere else , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical mistakes , erroneous theories , us intervention , etc. – they faced only defeat , repression , and futility . by the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly evident that the armed struggle for power in latin american was winding down . only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , the manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for a brief time the zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere had made guerrilla warfare unjustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , taking up arms was pointless . the wall were defeated , pacified , brought into the process of democratic , or rendered irrelevant in country after country .
less aggressive forms such as argentina with its peronism , he lived on elsewhere . , but with the defeat of germany , european fascism collapsed . . it reasonable to see it as a party of the right made the base of social of interwar fascism . the left parties was supported by the time the class of working . for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants , the only political space left . today has vanished left-wing politics in the basis of social .
it merited the exceptional step of referendum , and aside , let us suppose that the decision before tsipras was so crucial . that complexity , the event should be reflected in that case . it should the people will sounding have been careful . . it should been carried with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed to the greek people with respect organized , have . instead , greece got a referendum of hastily arranged .
in the matter of circumcision , there are obvious tensions not just between religious freedom and individuals ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and the authority of the state , multiculturalism and nationalism , and religious and secular moral perspectives . moreover , different communities prioritize human rights differently . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; but for others , as william galston of the brookings institution notes , “ the language of human rights hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots , it means than many realize , i shaping interpretations of human rights . . is in other words , culture . perimeter ci@@ sion featured in for centuries , middle ea@@ ster@@ ners conflicts between europeans as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes .
new delhi – there is something about the number five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship in terms of the famous pancha sheela : mutual respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s internal affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela , with president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . the updated principles would maintain strategic communication and healthy bilateral relations ; harness each other ’s strengths and expand cooperation in infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and increase mutual understanding and friendship ; expand coordination and collaboration in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . india would be happy to embrace each of these principles .
for 25 years , the bank tried to get governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . the result has been a disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades . the bank also pushed for privatization of national health systems , water utilities , and road and power networks , and grossly underfinanced these critical sectors . this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” went against the practical lessons of development successes in china and the rest of asia . practical development strategy recognizes that public investments – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – are necessary complements to private investments .
putin ’s authority may appear unshakeable , but it is actually propped up by propaganda and fear . when the us betrays its own values to avoid challenging russia , it strengthens putin ’s hand considerably . meanwhile , the perception that he has the us on the ropes enables putin to continue silencing his opponents . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take advantage of the leeway foreign leaders give him . already , he has ensured that the opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , giving the government an excuse to bar him from the ballot .
with energy prices moving center stage , there is a danger that already-weak incentives for investment in low-carbon energy will be further undermined . across europe , calls for “ affordable energy ” are fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of commitments on green energy . recent debates in the uk illustrate the emerging fault lines . five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , political leaders openly attack “ burdensome ” green taxes .
indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . a kleptocracy of government officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen has colonized the chinese state and is intent on blocking any reforms that might threaten their privileged status . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , together with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese – especially the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform – to become increasingly disillusioned . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
apart from another reasonably productive nuclear security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the news on the disarmament front over the last year has certainly been bleak . further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before the american presidential election season began . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has expressed the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers , which currently hold 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , make further major cuts . cautious initial moves by the us to modify its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” is to respond to nuclear threats , and not any other kind – have gone nowhere . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapons that remain at absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness have never really started .
in the process , he transformed a country that was in the grip of drug barons and on the verge of becoming a failed state . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a growing economy , has delivered , for the first time in three decades , normality to colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and the rule of law to much of its vast jungle regions . uribe ’s relentlessness has brought on waves of defections from the farc , which is now down to 9,000 guerrillas from a peak of 16,000 in 2001 . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat of the farc extend far beyond colombia . the hostage rescue mission has also forced chávez , still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum of last year ( a moment when chávez ’s own army high command allegedly refused his demand to fudge the result ) onto the defensive .
but the fact remains that a significant share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – will go through their school-age years without ever having set foot in a school . across the world ’s 35 conflict zones , 75 million children are currently being denied both education and the prospect of future employment . obviously , international education aid will have to increase . yet with a $ 40 billion annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone , it is also clear that we need a new approach . in addition to mobilizing private sources of finance , we must make the already available aid ( this year ’s $ 13 billion ) go much further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own investments in education .
and , indeed , a significant share of greece ’s government debt has migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions have already largely bailed out the private institutions . but the risks have not been eliminated . the margin for error for the major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are still not strongly capitalized , modest losses from direct defaults and indirect losses from companies with business in greece can threaten bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
it would be useful to how many people were diagnosed on treatment , what proportion of those on treatment have achieved blood-pressure control with high blood pressure , treatment level would be required to reduce the early early early deaths , and monitor . for example . finally , to expand as a result of strong advocacy and collaborations that reshaped markets for diagnostic and treatment programs was enough . , the effort of aids . by promoting competition , in combination with intense advocacy , and aggregating orders . needs forecasting medication . , policymakers and providers to secure market efficiencies were enough . . shift from high-margin solutions low-volume to high-volume , low-margin profit models allowed suppliers . is the resulting economies of scale . these efforts reduced annual hiv treatments the cost from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 as a result .
the us made some concessions , so that it was no longer the only holdout just before last year 's trade talks in cancun . in its bilateral trade agreements , however , the us is demanding what is becoming known as " trips plus , " which would strengthen intellectual property rights further , to ensure that countries only have the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergencies . can be made available in any case where to do so could save a life , reflected in the commission report , the global consensus calls for more exceptions . to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what is killing the person is part of an epidemic . friendship between countries enhanced ties the basis form bilateral agreements .
in the meantime , the china of spending growth the rate will not change dramatically . whether is real recovery in the us , i see . were waiting for chinese policymakers . if it is , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly . and if its export can allow the renminbi to rise , they more grow rapidly . without that exchange-rate adjustment , the export growth faster would expose the overheating of the risk to the chinese economy .
when i the early 1980s joined the imf . , discussions with non-government counterparts , whether on country or policy work , were discouraged . very different is , the situation today . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad set of politicians – is now viewed as an integral part of effective country advice and program implementation , as well as being essential for the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function under its article of agreements . needed if on the supra-national issues that are now migrating up its policy agenda , i deliver better . is the imf . is a similar pivot . specifically , the fund would need to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private counterparts .
to respond once slow , the world acting is now . from being used as instruments of war , i prevent schools . how , thirty countries have recently signed the luc@@ ens safe school guidelines . leila zerrougui , special representative of the un secretary-general for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of children from schools a “ trigger violation ” for the naming of terrorist organizations in the secretary-general ’s annual report to the security council . and , thanks to the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from attack , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . this ensure their school is safe to attend is possible for and pupils parents . has meant funding guards .
is inevitable its public debt coercive restructuring , and this is why greece is insolvent . it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why even italy – which is on relatively sounder fiscal footing , but has had flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform – can not be complacent . as fiscal austerity means more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more domestic demand growth – via delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . but the two biggest policy players in the eurozone – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of that agenda , hoping that a quarter of good gdp data makes a trend . the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape than the periphery : the bond vigilantes may not have woken up in france , but economic performance there has been anemic at best – driven mostly by a mini housing boom .
the political class to be the solution was thought . , europe . but public resentment increasingly increasingly catalysts could be europe 's euro and . jospin and chirac have done nothing to implement the large liberalization program ( including energy , financial services and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , which means that the benefits of liberalization are denied france at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all sorts of restrictions on the french way of doing business . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( ' l'exception francaise ) and start serious reforms that engage the french electorate . may yet prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and address the country 's problems is the new@@ found prominence of le pen 's shame .
people blame outside the country for somebody , and poland national decline worry . there was certainly a great deal of this type of sentiment in the 1930 ’s , when the populist response to the great depression attributed it to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” that the world is changing so quickly that national security and , indeed , national identity , are under threat , the explanation of the version of modern holds . a real problem emanate suggests these fears . is an alternative scenario . modern economic growth still depends in almost every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) .
of naming a person as the father of his eldest son reflects the practice . is not a revolutionary name , but abu mazen , his other name . abbas ’s son , mazen , runs a local advertising agency . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s political corruption and micromanagement , abbas lost whatever chance he had to maintain the loyalty of the fatah leadership , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most importantly , local militants . he lacked any idea of the possible outcome and did very little to ensure the discipline of fatah was political suicide . , calling for national elections , while politically correct , . an attempt at a primary to choose fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and the losers ’ refusal to honor the results .
new york – for four decades , ledra street in the heart of nicosia had been a symbol of a divided cyprus . two years ago this april , that north and south split capital . , the wall was opened , and . slowly , people who had not mingled for 44 years rediscover one the ties renew began . it was a window onto what the future might bring . i visited the street of ledra crossing , last week .
but the resulting f@@ ta could surpass nafta in its degree of integration and importance to the world economy if are realized in beijing last month , the proposals discussed . a korea f@@ ta china-japan-south formation would be very likely in addition . the momentum join the group , a@@ sean , has bilateral ftas with all three countries could expand southward . for example . to establishing the east asia free trade area , which the asean +3 envisioned about a decade ago , the events of such a turn would be equivalent . if that happened , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most importantly , india – might seek to jump on the bandwagon .
which lasts a few weeks at most , say u@@ genital infection , antibiotic treatment compare this . as a result , compliance with tb drug treatment is particularly weak , paving the way for the emergence of multidrug-resistant ( mdr ) tb , which can no longer be treated by conventional therapeutic regimes . that 's m@@ dr tubercle bacilli infected is some 50 million people . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with a treatment time of roughly two years , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as canonical drugs – and at a cost that rises by a factor of 10-100 . while this additional cost can be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poor countries , implying no , or insufficient , treatment .
politics is shaped by money in america with its quasi-corrupt system of campaign finance and its revolving doors between government and industry , but play a role in market forces , of course , . for example , a bankruptcy law enriches bankers , and debt does not allow all else , but privileges derivatives . in how money trumps democracy is a country . , such legislation has become predictably frequent . but is not inevitable , growing inequality . which are better both gdp growth both , market economies is there .
reform of medicare social security and have opposed . , and former secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton . senator bernie sanders , clinton ’s democratic rival , actually proposes to expand the programs ’ unfunded liabilities . the us faces serious risks with so few presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare and ensuring broadly shared prosperity . advance continue the redistributive progressive programme , or could fail the conservative entitlement-reform agenda . either way , the us would face growth-limiting tax increases and limits on the contributions that public investment can make to the country ’s future .
the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . but in all these countries , the political discourse of all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives have never entered into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives have expelled from their own party local leaders who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen 's representatives . this what under wolfgang schuessel , the austrian conservative people 's party did not do is exactly . . they made a faustian pact with haider , of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider 's freedom party , election outcome . confronted . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was not appealing to schuessel 's party ( for one , he would not be chancellor in such a coalition ) .
the congressional budget office projects that will rise by 2027 to 91.2 % even with no further legislation , the debt ratio . to raise that to 97 % , be would implied by the reform of tax . for additional debt-financed spending or tax reductions , a downturn of economic of a military emergency would call . but only an additional three percentage points to the debt ratio would add the $ 900 billion american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 even a massive spending program . it that more difficult to achieve than a debt ratio of 92 % , the debt ratio would make 13 % . , i believe . is hard . .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of the people of côte d’ivoire and appeals to all stakeholders to accept the results declared by the electoral commission . ” ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan called on all parties to “ respect and fully implement the verdict of the ivorian people as declared by the independent electoral commission . ” and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , and said that the world would “ hold those who act to thwart the democratic process and the will of the electorate accountable for their actions . ” the union of african also responded promptly . its peace and security council met and expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process .
seoul – has the world entered a new era of chaos ? america ’s vacillating policy toward syria certainly suggests so . indeed , the bitter legacy of the invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even when “ red lines ” are crossed , but also seemingly unwilling to bear any serious burden to maintain its global leadership position . but if america will take its place , who no longer is willing ? china ’s leaders have demonstrated their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic systems .
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of current light-vehicle fuel demand in the country , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of the largest companies in latin america – expects this share to increase to more than 80 % by 2020 . in promoting a competitive bioethanol industry in brazil , industrial policy was successful . shows . is our research . a massive stimulus package , prompted by the 1970 ’s rise in oil prices , gave rise to an entirely new industry . worked without the role of crucial played by competition , but it would n't . to to modern efforts , energy self-sufficient in a manner similar . become by other countries , brazil was trying .
indian fathers still bonded labor committing their kids debts sometimes repay . make them beguiling beggars maim their kids . was pakistani parents . are often protest exploitation of their children is last . , unfortunately , families . the ilo contends that children suffer greatly when they are forced to perform as " small adults . " " the child 's creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , " states one ilo report , " and his whole mental world is impoverished . "
america 's ability to - for good or ill - project political power . will fall within five years despite its wealth and military might , but america 's budget is in crisis . the tax cuts cuts , and will have to raise taxes and limit budget spending , whether or not bush is re-elected , has contributed to per year of $ 500 billion budget deficits . borrowing massively from abroad is the us . ; the annual military budget , in coming years to get the budget under control , will has increased by $ 150 billion since bush took office . hundreds of dollars of us securities billions have bought . is asia 's central banks . japan alone the treasury bills in us , around $ 750 billion has foreign exchange reserves . .
there outside the realm of cinematic fantasy , any globally devastating monetary attacks have not been found . , so far . there have long to undermine or replace the dollar as the dominant global currency is been political efforts . of course . been gold have seems like the alternative of most seductive . russian theorists of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of the fine metal . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a “ gold dinar ” as an answer to the us-based currency system .
my profit for correctly taking this bearish view is therefore € 1.65 m – the € 9.1 m i got by selling the bonds when i borrowed them on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had to pay goldman sachs for the six-month loan . voilà – a successful “ short ” trade . of course , a single short seller can not “ make ” the price of an asset ( unless he is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire and forced britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a bunch of speculators decide ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government ’s debt is overpriced , they can force down its price , thereby forcing up its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . could force a government to default on its debt , unless it can find a way to finance its borrowing more cheaply if persists attack
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the government and central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . the slowdown in chinese economic growth this year has been due almost entirely to deliberate decisions to deleverage the banking system , cut local governments ’ borrowing , reduce over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . softened or reversed can be these policies of austerity . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in the past few weeks . clear statements from policymakers , all the way up to xi , have indicated that china will not permit any further weakening of the economy next year , even if that means accepting bigger budget deficits or easing up on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
this was the age of weaver , potter , and cobbler in the village . technology improved enough to the creation of global supply chains allow in the century of eighteenth this shift was one of the industries of first to witness . , cotton . to grow cotton in the southern united states , which was then shipped to english mills were used . is slaves from africa . the finished cloth the world rest exported was . .
is it to be " always represented " by a lone political party ? i do not know what " the progressive direction of advanced culture " is , but advanced culture played no part in the ccp-inspired " wipe out poisonous weeds campaign , " the " anti-rightist movement , " or the " eliminate demons and evil heresy campaign . " stultifying uniformity culture is only supported by such obscurantism . culture seek light knows how in which and like a blade of grass beneath a stone . it does not need to be " represented . "
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do so . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when signing the anti-gay bill into law in 2014 . other leaders , from gambia ’s president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , have spoken in the same vein . these official attitudes have caused significant suffering for africa ’s gays and lesbians . is painfully clear : legal penalties , social ostracism , and mob justice is gay people in many african countries homophobia the price .
still , it appears that china ’s share , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over aiib decisions . that underscores the main concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it turn out to be a bank of china , by china , and for china , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda in the manner of the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and africa development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have inadequate access to capital for infrastructure . they the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb have insufficient voice . , perhaps more important .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard fueled the controversy by pointing out that in recent times governments have tended to underestimate the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . they have typically assumed that to cut public spending by a dollar would reduce gdp by 50 cents in the short term ; according to blanchard , the true outcome in current conditions is a decline by between $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a big gap , but also a perplexing finding : be so much uncertainty may be how . ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities may suggest , economists actually than they used to know , more at least know a lot of fiscal policy . . until the 1980 ’s , it was routinely assumed that the so-called “ multiplier ” – the ratio of change in gdp to the change in government spending – was stable and larger than one .
worse , there have been suggestions of their actual use . in order to the cities on their target lists living , military plan@@ ners the use of nuclear weapons consider . the residents used with little concern for the full implications of playing the game as a global nuclear che@@ ss@@ board have been reported . for too long . that stance will be maintain increasingly difficult about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , but as the public . worldwide must stop regarding one another as untrustworthy enemies at the time of same .
the majority of europeans are the worst is unconvinced to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , especially . is these groups . moreover , right-wing populist parties with the eu public frustration growing took advantage . . many european citizens oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” the mantra of eu traditionalists in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) and the social democrats . the influence of widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south , ” with france in the middle ( but heading south ) , was also evident . and the massive prosperity gap between “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns .
they has been sprinkled with a powder of fine raise their glasses . even the purest cocaine , but could offer not gold powder , as lesser moguls . rhino horn pulverized white is costlier rarer . abounded in africa was a half-century ago . that only 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya , the conservation of nature for the union of international says .
dubai – the global financial crisis taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent for our security , as is clear in the current struggle to defeat isis . we must we can not extinguish the fires of fanaticism by force alone , i acknowledge . if we are to prevent isis from teaching us this lesson the hard way . restore hope and dignity to those whom they would recruit to discredit the ideology that gives extremists their power , you unite behind . must be the world . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by the international coalition that is now assembling and which the uae is actively supporting .
this year 's nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on `` asymmetry of information . '' what is that work about and why did we undertake it ? that all participants have equal and transparent knowledge of the relevant factors , simple economic models that information was perfect , that thought . . were used for two hundred years . they would be akin to a world with perfect information with moderate imperfections of information , i hoped . , but knew that information was n't perfect . . imperfections small of information could have profound effects on how the economy behaved : we showed that this notion was ill-founded .
the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) did not lead to the well-being of society ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly workers who have lost their jobs , who have seen their retirement funds vanish , retirees , or taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions to bail out the banks , serve owners are losing their homes . did n't . . under the threat of a collapse of the entire system , the safety net – intended to help unfortunate individuals meet the exigencies of life – was generously extended to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan companies . transferred to so few from so many never has so much . we are accustomed to thinking of government the poor well transferring money .
the practical result – ukraine remaining unaligned in military and security terms – would reflect the will of the ukrainian population as a whole . this approach would be consistent with the principle , which us president barack obama highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month , that ukraine must be permitted to “ chart its own path . ” above all , it would help the people of ukraine – divided between inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . of course , ukraine ’s position may change in the future , with cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus to abandon neutrality . what is important is that the constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , say , the easily reversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that the ukrainian parliament adopted in 2010 – to join a military alliance .
facing nis government east and for the most important fiscal task will reduce the size of social spending in coming years . will have to focus public attention on the looming fiscal crisis is -- at home and from abroad -- political elites . understand the one-time transfer of the crucial difference to old workers at the start of market reform , and a long run pension policy should be the public . in any viable long term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ones in particular ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need . long-term reform should aim for a shift to a pension system based on individual savings accounts , as in chile , as opposed to the current state run , pay-as-you-go pension systems in institutional terms .
labor markets tight , populist nationalism , and industry concentration to start in which , but this may be followed by a second stage . and may catch policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive reactions that make a bad situation worse , higher inflation the onset of possible . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty regarding the timing of this scenario . but must recognize that their inflation outlook is subject to a wider range of dynamic possibilities than they have considered so far , advanced economies policymakers . could pose serious risks to future economic wellbeing and financial stability , focusing too much on the cyclical , rather than the structural .
the same goes for implementing the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investments in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . the un ’s manifold agendas – peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism – must be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-contained institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be deployed in the field to break down departmental barriers and confront appropriate challenges . be in each country led by un operations . under a common mandate across all un agencies would be the groups . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equally into all parts of the un agenda , not just in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ” issues .
india the absolute number largest of poor people on the planet is home . with an estimated 268 million people in extreme poverty in the latest survey from 2011 . each the poverty line extreme is on 38 cents of average . . the cost adds up to almost $ 11 billion exchange-rate dollars for india . the democratic republic of congo and nigeria would be the most expensive countries in which to end poverty . short of the line of poverty on average , a dollar is extremely poor in the drc .
however , of international financial markets and commodity prices , developing the most countries macroeconomic policy was increasingly pro-@@ cyclical in recent decades . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment economic policy , which limits long-term investments in infrastructure and human capital , thus constraining growth encourage short-term orientation tends . more fiscal space can be created by improving governance and strengthening the tax base , and , for the poorest countries , by achieving additional stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . it can have a strong positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development , when oda by geopolitics is not determined . . finally , guaranteeing property rights creating markets encompasses better . , institutional reform .
european leaders need to get serious about europe ’s cocaine problem . the “ white lady ” is seducing a steadily growing number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only worsen the consequences . cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to the point that the united states started a major campaign against sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in the inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the andes . but now cocaine in most of the world demand is dropping stable . seizures of cocaine have almost doubled , co@@ ca n't five years past slashed by a quarter . .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and america ’s democratic institutions are clearly under strain . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in congress has fallen below 9 % . among congressional republicans , in particular , a “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism is undermining the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . the constitution a country divided by income , race , and partisanship so sharply was not designed to address the challenges . according to some pessimists . they have the power under the tenth amendment of the us constitution to strengthen democratic institutions , and yet state and local governments by most voters are still trusted . .
the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . this how make money save is a chance . is especially true . . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s police forces , customs service , and even the bundeswehr have been ordering uniforms from a state-owned factory in the city of dzherzinsky , named after the father of the red terror and founder of the soviet kgb , feliks dzherzinsky . abound like examples of such indifferent cynicism european hypocrisy is naked by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner at the same time that the eu is trying to isolate him as an international pariah .
bond yields in southern europe and fear of apprehension , per@@ va@@ sive sense . were growing . . . lacking was but political leadership . finally , in december , decisive action was taken . there would be a “ fiscal treaty , ” which would reinforce the stability and growth pact and , importantly , entail automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members stick to those rules . at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , which pulled the european banking system back from the brink .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado – the stock exchange ’s special voluntary listing segment , which provides strong protections for investors in newly listed companies – supports this view . have limits , particularly in brazil but stock . they can not sue to enforce their rules in the reliable courts of the absence . to push recalcitrant firms off the exchange is their only recourse . dealt with this problem by involving to arbitration for its newly-listed companies , subjecting disputes . is the novo mercado .
new york – january is traditionally a time for assessing the developments of the previous year , in order to anticipate what the new one has in store . unfortunately , even though we may be at a turning point for the better politically , the data that have emerged in the last month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s short-term prospects . following most powerful leader of iran 's its targeted killing , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us interests a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another . in theory , of course , a simultaneous shift in several countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education – with large concomitant productivity gains – could diminish the competitiveness of an economy that made no such effort . is highly unlikely , in the foreseeable future at least , but this scenario . in fact , the europe of highly specialized universities the proliferation has buttress economic growth or employment failed . and to avert economic disaster in those economies did nothing . is conversion of comprehensive universities into specialized institutes for science and technology in the soviet union and communist china .
first , all large budget deficits growing unemployment , inflation falling output were cause : . was likely without severe crisis , no reform of significant . second government prompted reforms through elections and democratic legitimacy gave them . a change of . does not as is often argued , ask a state of emergency . , reform . reforms strong leader require , third .
indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , cash holdings by the corporate sector in the united states have piled up quarter after quarter , reaching all-time highs – and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . they than they did in the past , less precautionary savings , you need a lot . , because companies have significantly improved their operating efficiency and lengthened the maturities on their debt . however one looks at it , the corporate sector and in the us in particular , in advanced economies in general . as it has been in many years is as strong . . that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments around the world that have yet to confront adequately a legacy of over-leverage , a mix of resistance . have achieved . is non-financial firms . but , rather than deploy their abundant cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets – which they have been very hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted – many companies have so far preferred ( or have been pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to shareholders .
that the regime of its evil twin to the north will collapse and inundate it with hungry refugees , primary liability whose is danger . , and the economic potential men@@ tals is far stronger for south . thriving domestic market , to middle east and energy politics , nato membership , european union membership bid , and ties to growing importance is true of turkey with its robust banking sector . is the same . perhaps the most compelling case of all is that of indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that has been a star performer in asia despite the global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , which recently has vied with venezuela for leadership of the “ america in decline ” cheering section . has shown resilience as a nation , not but also , indonesia .
a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” principle is inherently flawed , because the major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five of them can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their inherent military strength . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , the test of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering . and going to war against any of the major powers to protect a suffering minority would certainly trigger a much wider conflagration . that place great emphasis on the promotion of values are extremely vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy , the line of bottom states that values in international relations . be comfortable with double standards unambiguous be seen . does not to win the support or cooperation of others . and worst of all is to be perceived as being soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , commit mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens .
the ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there had been fined by the us reinforces the suspicion that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . it cambodia is bad , but it be good for a corrupt few . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-free access to the european union market , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” trade regime . dodge us tariffs helping chinese firms requires the cambodia of last . yet that seems to be exactly what hun sen ’s government plans to do .
fighting def@@ lation are still is some economies of important . are unemployed for more than 200 million people the global economy risks getting stuck in a “ new mediocre ” – a prolonged period of slow growth and feeble job creation . we need policy momentum to stagnation break free . if the measures agreed by the leaders assembled at the g-20 in november are implemented , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income .
should it undergo further simultaneous transformation and enlargement ? nato have with its partners , should n't relations what kind ? address these questions in a way of balanced tries , al@@ bright report . it endorses policies that capture accurately the relationship between “ out of area operations ” and members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic political and military objectives could be achieved jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms reduction verified by non-proliferation and arms control agreements .
one whose recent behavior has been deceptive clever , it is north korea . . that china , the country with the greatest potential leverage , is most concerned about regime collapse in north korea , and thus the threat of chaos on its borders , they violated their agreements . is the koreans of north . japan officially endorses the objective of a non-nuclear world , but it relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent , and wants to avoid being subject to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) . if the us decreases its nuclear forces to parity with china , the japanese fear the deterrence of the american credibility will be weakened . it believe that on parity in numbers of nuclear weapons , extended deterrence depends . is a mistake . .
berkeley – back in the late 1990 ’s , in america at least , two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , for repealing the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why did n’t it then ? the first school of thought , broadly that of the united states ’ republican party , was that financial regulation was bad because all regulation was bad . the second , the democratic party broadly that , was based on four observations , and more complex was . : · in the global economy ’s industrial core , at least , it had then been more than 60 years since financial disruption had had more than a minor impact on overall levels of production and employment .
it is grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still persuaded to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” it should not alienate moderate voters either , because more equality would be good for the economy , but concentrating on egalitarianism would course liberals appeal . to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not about helping the left-behind folks in rust belt cities and rural hinterlands , poor card supporters might and it giving even more money to the very few is about . . the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that in a plutocracy , everyone else loses .
but neither wants to be the “ chicken , ” because that would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other side . still , without a deal by year ’s end , a collision will become likely . a bad outcome more likely becomes as the clock ticks down . thought he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions , trump . the regional provocations escalating , knowing full well that trump can not afford a full-scale war and the oil-price spike that would result from it have answered . , but the ir@@ anians .
but to that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attack by rivals , i have realized . , the scaf seems . moreover , the scaf dissected their relative weakness , limited capacity , notorious opportunism , and general inconsistency the politicians has carefully weighed . . as a result , there is a growing belief within the scaf that its three “ minimum ” demands have become both unnecessary and insufficient . in the last two months , the scaf ’s behavior towards civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community , has clearly reflected the change in attitude : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from us – not us from you . ” the political polarization , sectarian incidents , weak economy , and absence of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition .
whatever reduce economic growth in turn , higher tax rates requires higher debt-service costs . have to pay an amount equivalent to more than one-third of the revenue from personal-income taxes just to the debt of national pay interest will be the us by the end of the decade . keep the debt of half more in foreign investors sending more and the goods services to the rest of the world than the us receives from the rest of the world requires interest to paying them . make foreign goods to american consumers and to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers requires a lower dollar . , that .
indeed , aside from matters of domestic policy and the issue of internal freedom , the choice between the major candidates hinges on the question of whether iran should seek greater international integration . moussavi stands for more openness ; ah@@ ma@@ din@@ e@@ j@@ ad and partial isolation confrontation stands for a policy . . a policy of opening the country would therefore quickly put the regime ’s existence at risk . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it will have to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , but still indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and the conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , iraq , lebanon , and palestine . a key player in cooling the hot spots in the caucasus and central asia is , iran .
the external front were the gains of most visible . tripled the gdp share of inward foreign direct investment , and exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp . but where it counts – in overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment . total factor productivity has or stagnated rejected , and averaged well below 1.5 % is per capita economic growth . . it was mexico if to be the poster child of the new orthodoxy in economic development was a country . there .
many asian countries growth impressive export-led have achieved under the current system . after all . some of the current global system of the barriers chip away may and bilateral or regional trade deals . have only limited capacity to adapt agreements , and that the nature of global trade is constantly evolving is a fundamental problem . . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever larger share of global output ( now roughly two-thirds ) , and further expansion requires significant changes in existing agreements . even if asia has succeeded by relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , especially in africa , can realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness , an ability to annihilate complex thoughts and other feelings , an ability to destroy language , and a strong resistance to objectification described . is a non-medical writer contemporary . she suffering awareness of all other is a powerful negative emotion is intense pain . for the person , reminds doctors . . to the spinal cord and from there to the brain travel , and occurs after simple nervous is most of the time , pain . that these signals traveled along a few well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brain called the thalamus , scientists thought . from there , scientists believed , the awareness of the brain 's cortex part was the signals . , and somehow turned them into conscious experience in the cortex .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists performed an abrupt volte-face and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the key event that set in motion the developments that would ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movement as a global norm . the first stop was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , where two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the president of the european commission and his assistant , respectively ) – led the way . then it was the turn of the organization of economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . joined under michel camdessus , another frenchmen who had served as governor of the bank of france under mitterrand by the bandwagon , the imf eventually .
within 15 minutes of the general ’s face fading from the screen , 40 army units in algeria declared their loyalty . the insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaped to spain ; the barricades men were persuaded to leave their stronghold . that the republican authority of paris had been asserted over the pieds noirs who had helped to bring down the fourth republic , the revolt of military the defeat was the first time . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – aided , it must be said , by the fumbling of the rebels – established the primacy of the state . the next day , de gaulle ’s face was drawn , but he was resolute and full of energy .
the promotion of diplomatic of palestine a lifeline offered him . . to take israel to the international criminal court for war crimes , and of peaceful politics the potential collapse on the western violence did the rejected . ? if not , why are they so ham-fisted ? it what others have made in the past is the mistake of same . appears that israel . it proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilians does not break their morale and turn them against their own leaders , however terrible the regime has been reported . .
fourth has not the ground proceeded quickly . , but afghanistan 's war led to the diplomatic breakthrough . a central role in coordinating humanitarian assistance for the afghan people in a working government in that country the reconstruction will play the un . just the us acting alone , to reassure many countries that this is a true international effort , and the un in this process the growing role relies on terrorism 's international law . . the world community is to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession finding new ways . : while these seem to be a grab-bag of achievements , they point to a message of single . provides greater confidence that disputes can be addressed peacefully and even sensibly , with significant inputs of scientific expertise as in the climate change treaty is under the un umbrella , the role of growing of international institutions .
except for barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in the world ’s electoral marketplace that differs very much from what is usually called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there is no longer a battle between different projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that might raise voters ’ emotions . here , brazil is than the united kingdom , spain or uruguay , no different . . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year is like a soccer match between big teams , where supporters of one candidate and the other are solely distinguished by the colors of their shirts , since the strongest teams accept the rules of the game and even tactics are similar . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the coldness of the electoral landscape is closely related to one reality : the “ irrelevance ” of politics due to its “ financiarisation . ”
but must come from within the media industry itself is the most important changes . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ employees , freelancers , and audiences , these organizations should report on the topic . with attacks on the press increasing , the old approach – prideful silence – no longer makes sense . the world will listen to me if their colleagues face , and they use their ship to inform the dangers world . . that has remained behind the headlines , an issue was against journalists violence .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders achieved the millennium development goal ( mdg ) of reducing the share of the world ’s poor to half of its 1990 level – five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes the poverty of the threat of enduring underscore worldwide . . it is a condition that threatens billions of vulnerable people ; poverty is not a fixed group of an unchanging attribute after all . . despite their shortcomings , in gaining a better understanding of the extent of poverty and vulnerability worldwide , income measures are useful . but the world bank ’s poverty line of $ 1.25 per day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , which is used in measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction target , is not the only relevant threshold .
and private investment spending will keep regulatory uncertainties policy an abundance . is dampened by longer-term constraints as well is the outlook for 2014 . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effect on productivity growth of years of underinvestment in human and physical capital . and the structural reforms will be implemented too slowly the potential growth boost requires these economies . . while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of public debt ; loss of competitiveness and slow reduction of unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does not help ) ; and extremely tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging .
but a proposition of long-term is realizing that value . more immediately , to get the gas to market in europe and elsewhere , a gas liquefaction plant costing about € 10 billion needs to be built , and israeli investors have already expressed interest . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy wealth , and the funding needed to develop it , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is just € 23 billion . but these figures have to be placed in the context of the eu ’s gloomy overall energy picture – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do .
greece in the country 's woes blaming the eu is barely alone . , syriza . new democracy and pasok do much the same , attacking the eu , “ speculators , " and hedge funds – anyone who might divert the public 's attention from their own responsibility for the crisis . the oligarchs of country controlled are happy about greece 's largest private media . as the proximate cause of austerity , a result of neoliberal dogma , so most television channels just as tsipras does , talk about the deal of bailout . . discipline , not their country 's profligacy the deranged obsession of germany 's remains as a result for too many people in greece .
after all , it was tiny qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlement , egypt that mediated the gaza cease-fire , and turkey that is facilitating the israeli-syrian talks . israel ’s shift in policy towards syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , was a powerful message to the americans that they should not miss the lebanese train as well . but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match the influence of the region ’s “ axis of evil . ” lebanon is too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see their local clients relieve the israelis of the burden of a “ lebanese front ” before their own grievances are addressed . nor is hezbollah keen to see the end of israel ’s occupation of the sheba farms on the lebanon border undermine its claim to the formidable independent military force that it has built with iranian and syrian help .
but with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflation trends , rather than on the official unemployment rate and its implications under traditional models . moreover , while fed staff members tend to believe that the us economy ’s rate of potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , seems open to the idea that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will allow for somewhat stronger non-inflationary growth . is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making up for below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing for above-target inflation during expansionary periods , clarida . and though the review is still in its early stages , the fed already that inflation should be allowed to exceed 2 % without immediately triggering a tightening , i have embraced the idea . seems . that the fed could remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 , these factors suggest taken together .
it is governments – and thus taxpayers and bondholders – that finance nuclear plants . moreover , the alleged “ cost-savings ” of nuclear power never include the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , decommissioning of aging facilities , and emergency clean-up and remediation of impacted communities when disasters occur – all , again , at taxpayers ’ expense . at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of the heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down the plant ’s reactors ; the protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the costs of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . there 's resulting from exposure to health-care costs possibility on top of that . the price of nuclear energy improving energy efficiency renewable energy shifting is all of these hidden costs .
otherwise , they would be stifling debate . this would stand for what universities , run too . . as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire , by giving the trump camp another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” engagement clear rules are necessary but . is a distinction between someone uphold the principle most important and honoring someone .
new york – like an inmate on death row , the euro has received another last-minute stay of execution . it will a little survive . the markets are celebrating , as they have after each of the four previous “ euro crisis ” summits – until they come to understand that the fundamental problems have yet to be addressed . there was good news in this summit : europe ’s leaders have finally understood that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to the banks to save the sovereigns , and to the sovereigns to save the banks , will not work . likewise , they now who will demand even higher interest rates , private investors are bailout loans , i recognize . .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to buy , if necessary , unlimited amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , provided the affected countries subscribe to the rules of europe ’s rescue fund , the european stability mechanism . thousands of germans appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union , which bars monetary financing of eurozone governments , and that it imposes substantial risks on german citizens as taxpayers . the court has now declared that it fully endorses the plaintiffs ’ arguments , and that the omt program does indeed violate eu primary law . but the court asked for its opinion for of justice the european court rather than issuing a formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it could have done .
and the capital tax gains has more than 50 % since the 1980s fallen . in order to build support for public investment in higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return , by channeling profits into a public innovation fund to finance the next wave of technologies . when investments are in upstream basic research , industries and sectors for the spillover effect a reward of social is sometimes enough . . creating alternative incentives require but other cases . for example , some of the profits from the government ’s investment in tesla could have been recovered through shares ( or royalties ) , and used to cover the losses from its investment in solyndra .
if the ecb ’s next leaders do not meet them , the euro itself will be at risk . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership teams of their own , and the european parliament will have seated a new generation of politicians who have not taken part in the past decade ’s compromises and reforms . anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation a environment of political will be elected on the contrary . is a consensus of broad that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability , there 's still . obviously , with interest rates at the zero lower bound , monetary/fiscal-policy coordination more is a must .
retained the upper hand , and for want of effective leadership , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed . . these regimes their own ends wield social media have begun . in fact . we in the united states , in ukraine , france , germany , and , most , influence electoral outcomes , used social media . , everything have heard the allegations . . facebook has estimated that russian content on its network , including posts and paid ads , reached 126 million americans , around 40 % of the nation ’s population . we should recall earlier accusations by russia of the west ’s role in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
but he miscalculation immune is not . . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s financial and political support to win the presidency . however , kha@@ men@@ ei is that choice very regretful , today . the parliament discredit him with the public by challenging his authority tries , and disobeys his orders , ahmadinejad . it khamenei also regrets the basij militia volunteers to attack the british embassy last permitting is an open secret . .
but it is not clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interest . out china single is not a point . apply to brazil and india is similar questions . it the world must be examined by the developing and emerging countries . is not just . , and . must do so as well is the us .
that some people are others richer , a great deal . nor we should worry . to be in the right place at the right time been lucky . , or they work harder their intelligence . is some people . but i do n’t see what alternative political-economic arrangements could make individuals ’ relative wealth closely correspond to their relative moral or other merit . the problems that can be addressed are those of poverty and social insurance — of providing a safety net — not of inequality . but on the level of individual societies , i does loom as a problem of political-economic , inequality , i believe . .
more broadly , however , her point is that we need the fsoc to be able to do its job – to look for and assess all kinds of potential systemic risks . this a matter of technical , not as part of the political process be done . needs . not everyone at the sec is as sensible as stein . there is also some friction among the various regulators in the us , and we surely need more coordination across national borders – including with europe . are pushing back hard against the fsoc and its mandate working through members of congress . is . , but the real danger .
the final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation , in whom connections with the western world have imbued an eagerness to see real democratic progress in romania . their euph@@ oria was overwhelming as the announced results . in bucharest ’s university square , the celebration recalled the energy of 1989 ; it was the sound of an awakened electorate , aware of its previous mistakes and ready for a fresh start . iohannis may also have benefited , to some extent , from an association in voters ’ minds with the german hohenzollern kings who ruled romania wisely and with dedication for more than 80 years . and , indeed , upon learning of his victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to king michael i ( a hohenzollern prince until he renounced the title in 2011 ) .
while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate abilities , the country ’s system of higher education does an abysmal job cultivating their talents . is and ske@@ wed toward rote learning of theory , largely obsolete at basic analytical and critical-thinking skills expense for most . due to lack of investment in these disciplines and excessive political control of curricula is particularly deficient . is social sciences and humanities education . having learned relatively little about the outside world in fields such as anthropology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history in chinese graduate from and universities of colleges as a result . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will not be able to produce enough highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest .
these reforms will stimulate competition improve consumer interests and attract foreign investment and technology transfers new markets create . compel even more restructuring upon japan will finally be global economic conditions . japan has the markets of further liberalization under the wto committed . while export expansion delivered growth in this century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will lead to increasing productivity in japan in the next . imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
i believe that the west can learn a great deal about what to do by studying the policies pursued in the world 's only two mid-development moslem states , tunisia and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . is noteworthy violence-prone algeria given its proximity is the achievement of tunisia . pursued rapid , egalitarian development ; rapid job creation in manufacturing jobs ; combined significant increased is both countries . the only viable answer to the problems of the moslem world 's mal-development is egalitarian development of this sort . however , it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for several reasons : it does not supply an ideology compelling enough to compete with fundamentalism , which has captured at least two generations in the moslem world .
new haven – yet another in a long string of negative inflation surprises is at hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( consumer price index ) – which excludes food and energy – has headed down just when it was supposed to be going up . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi the year-earlier level of just 1.7 % holding was basically unchanged . . for a us economy that is widely presumed to be nearing the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as a rude awakening – particularly for the federal reserve , which has pulled out all the stops to get inflation back to its 2 % target . a similar story continues to play out in japan halfway around the world .
to the third-century bc buddhist emperor ashoka , sen traces of the democratic dialogue indian is the nobel laureate economist amartya . he also contrasts the religious tolerance preached and practiced by the muslim emperor akbar in the 1590 ’s with the inquisition , which was hounding heretics in europe at around the same time . should also be reconsidered is our assumptions about the west asia the relative prosperity . asia global gdp accounted for 60 % . as recently as 200 years ago . but their relative positions switched following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china .
the core protective legal institution for outside finance , the federal securities laws , did n’t fall into place until the 1930 ’s – decades after us financial markets had grown to finance america ’s economic rise . seem to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later is and japan 's britain . until complex business finance started the end of the nineteenth century developing , they had no corporate law . , japan . yet that only after financial markets protect investors with a stake in them press for better legislation , sequence is opposite . . so , in britain , japan , and the us , foundational something must have been in place before started financial markets .
insufficient spending the issue was never . from 1998 to 2007 , greece 's annual per capita gdp growth the second fastest in western europe , 3.8 % averaged behind ireland . . but by 2007 , greece was spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it was producing , the largest such gap in europe – more than twice that of spain and 55 % higher than ireland 's . access to much cheaper mortgages gave people . , but ireland construction boom reflected . in greece , by contrast , the gap used for investment , consumption was usually fiscal . .
augmented by reducing elected representatives discretion may sometimes be the quality of democratic governance is true . . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when the issues at hand are technical and do not raise distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in sub-optimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discounting of future costs . a illustration of important provide is independent central banks . left to the technocrats at the central bank is achieve that target for the means . , but it may be up to elected politicians to determine the inflation target . central banks must provide an accounting when they miss the targets remain accountable to politicians even then .
first , it is important to realize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not just the central bank ’s problem to fix . it the finance ministry requires support for the government , most notably other parts . , while the central bank bears a good part of the responsibility . a reduction in national expenditure in domestic saving relative to investment relative to revenue requires , maintaining a competitive currency . otherwise , the gains of competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation . this to target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for real exchange rate depreciation is borne by the authorities of fiscal : means . .
there is something about the narrative – a sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts for the sake of her children , with her husband staying by her side – that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . one can be reasonably certain , however , that jolie ’s decision will alter the roles available to her as an actress . as enthusiastically as the global mass media has received her choice , it is nonetheless extremely difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – let alone physically “ flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also as a fantasy sex object . but the real importance of jolie ’s story is its context : a wave of women and men , in very different settings around the world , who are insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame . jolie has refused to treat mastectomy as scary or tragic – or as making her “ less of a woman ” in any way .
it that sets a limit of political practical and to flexible exchange rates , this danger is . . could be triggered if the domestic currency loses too much value too quickly is a vicious circle . , but some depreciation can be managed by most of the deficit countries . private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting pressure on public finances would compel austerity , thereby constraining consumer demand – and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . to prevent such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate has to be managed – and in a manner that depends on a country ’s specific circumstances . net centr@@ al-@@ bank reserves large can help ease the process .
anywhere else in the world firmly protected by law is more . is free speech . but the show of barr cancellation was , of course , a decision legal . are n't free speech limits to public opinion , entertainment companies are sensitive . fired , for commercial reasons , if something they have said is deemed to be offensive to a large number of people tend , people .
have a majority of muslim in not one has been noted within the world of muslim as well is this phenomenon . was written on the un development program behalf and the arab fund on social development , the arab human development report in the summer of 2002 it behind other regions in key measures , including women 's empowerment individual freedom an arab world portrays as well as economic development . disturbing trends , such as a demographic youth " bulge " combined with high youth unemployment rates -- reaching almost 40 % in some places -- highlight potentially explosive social conditions .
but this than a reflection of their real influence was more symbolic . given the global balance of power . adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation when all europe , the cold war end . came . europe remained dependent on us in terms of security . but on the economic and technological fronts , europeans had regained their sovereignty . was manifested in and the eu nato , respectively is the labor division .
he announced that he had hired eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his presidential campaign . " the jews " were not his enemies any more , he said ; they were even working for him . but tudor did n't prolix apologies stop . he soon sponsored the unveiling of tran@@ sylvania at brasov the assassinated israeli premier yitzak rabin a bust . for the occasion , tudor wore a yarmulke and spoke about his " philo-semitism " for more than two hours .
and independent journalists of investigative in africa shady business deals , high-level corruption have often exposed . . a leading paper philip kin@@ is@@ u had received suspicious payments from the national youth service , former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , i reported . for example . further investigations into the nys to the streets in protest take , spurring ken@@ ans revealed more corrupt deals . . but those with power know how to fight back – and they do not pull their punches . the free press suppressed compromised is as a result .
china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , and the lessons of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process , to be used to drive the next phase of economic reform . that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy is one key lesson . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( not the state ) that will identify and support the unicorns . however , the state can still play a role in fostering innovation has build and an inter@@ ne@@ t-@@ driven sector a more innovative manufacturing sector begun . but that such efforts are funded by equity , not leverage , thereby enhancing market balance and resilience , the government how to offload its massive holdings of shares in an orderly manner determines .
such as a military coup could become conducive to a power grab of one form or another could cause the departure of sudden due to illness . is imperative for any such eventuality constitutional provisions strict adherence a and fair free election is especially alarming . , the lack of free media . it is essential that the opposition can freely air its message and target prospective voters – a point not lost on the chávez regime as it seeks to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to the electorate . the recent attack on globovision , venezuela ’s only surviving independent station , stands out in this regard .
makes what a difference a decade during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked at big , lumbering central banks as cash cows , long on money and short on financial acumen . in just an hour , england made a billion dollars . , george soros . bet against any central bank that tries to defend an inconsistent macroeconomic policy a standard one was his basic strategy . did not of course , win every battle . , traders .
businesses have not ramped up investment , and growth in household consumption remained expectations contrary . . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely exceeded the level it attained at the end of last year , and much of the increase was driven by goods that have been produced but not yet sold . the prevailing explanation – a brutally cold winter – is wearing so thin that everyone should be able to see through it . american consumers the crisis remain scarred . . but despite all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now surrounds them , there 's another problem , excitement about the future sense is missing in their homes and workplaces . .
nowhere is the need to overcome financing bottlenecks more apparent than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will have to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . to be provided by the private sector , have will public budgets come . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , especially its broadband networks , up to international standards will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework could help to encourage . regulatory reform is also needed to strengthen support for startup companies – an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflected in the difficulties such companies face in obtaining venture capital .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy would overtake that of the us in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership would pass to china in 2014 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that china actually surpassed the us in ppp terms in 2010 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income using a set of international prices applied to all economies .
but one should not jump to conclusions . a balance of imports exports and a approximation of first of independence is only . as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence vulnerability and sensitivity involves . the us economy will remain sensitive to shocks from sudden changes in world prices is a fungible commodity . , but the us may if it imports less energy , be more vulnerable . in other words , or saudi arabia revolution could still the us and its allies inflict damage . .
climate catastrophes such as typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations , and are burning the amazon and indonesian rainforests . the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations after the second powerful leader of iran 's its targeted killing . interests elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us . a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been in an un@@ controlled military escal@@ ation an interest has now after all , iran and the .
the bottom may be near – perhaps by the end of the year . this the global economy set for a recovery of robust any time soon does not mean . , but taken to the global economy revive is no reason to leave the strong measures . is hitting bottom . complex : with a financial crisis , a crisis of economic combined . is this downturn . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth .
tackling the world ’s environmental and ecological problems , and improving the lot of those who have been left behind , will require public action , such as that which i oversaw in my roles at the world bank , the united nations , and the british government . the business of the participation will also be demand but . i saw that the growth fueled by business competition in a globalizing world can do far more to combat poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs alone in my own career . but when that competition is not conducted responsibly , the opposite can happen – and , in many cases , it has . businesses they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation , the developed-world workers have often overlooked . in seizing the opportunities of globalization .
it would be an incendiary move , but . would see it as an anti-democratic coup is many leavers . and this step would a plebiscite of new is not necessitate , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his disparate opponents into overcoming their differences to stop a no-deal brexit . but whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed out of british politics .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative for the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance and ensuring that the full potential of sdg 14 is realized . such a representative must be the job do given enough resources . . the ocean has abuse and neglect suffered decades . it as a free-for-all garbage bin and race-to-the-bottom buffet has been treated . . we have financed its destruction , with consequences for no regard .
when crops fail , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing burden of debt ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . suggest the numbers have grown since then media reports , but this is the last year official data on farmer suicides is available for which . the biggest victims of the bjp government ’s neglect of agriculture have been the country ’s small and marginal farmers , as well as landless farm labor . these groups were dealt a body blow two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . lost their jobs by the millions , because in adequate quantities , replacement currency was not printed . is traditionally paid in cash , daily wage workers .
with six billion humans and counting – and our individual consumption growing – we face enormous challenges in using our natural resources sustainably . and there extinction rates we perform at that task , how : is one clear measure . . some colleagues i the rate at which bird species became extinct in the recent past and the rate at which they will likely become extinct in the future have calculated . for this reason . bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity ’s massive and irreversible environmental impact . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , there may be 10 or perhaps even 100 other unknown species of animals , plants , or fungi .
and , finally – perhaps most important – they allow their users to perceive patterns and opportunities that would be impossible to discover through traditional means . that still teach us has much . , organ organ inspired by the human brain . is cognitive systems . traditional computer architecture seems as power consumption soars and the transmission delay between components becomes increasingly burdensome to the limits to be with systems growing in size and complexity . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per energy unit on “ unstructured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than the best man-made machines . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , ceo of the digital power group .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system of joint deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the danger of a run on banks in times of crisis . emphasize the disparity in risks , bad loans high share owing on balance sheets of banks in some countries while this argument is true . balance sheets will need to be cleaned up before considering the next step to move ahead with the plan address this risk disparity . . while the share of bad loans for banks in the stable eurozone countries is just 2 % , the most recently published international monetary fund statistics , from last april , show a share of 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece .
she because she lost that power , she 's in prison . . this sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – winner takes all , loser goes to prison – for ruthlessness . it is difficult to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her , or to the forces that want to exclude her from politics forever . ukrainian leaders were dealing with inconvenient opponents is used for means than prison more efficient . until recently . for example , kidnapped and beheaded after the government corruption high-level publishing online reports was in 2000 .
's competition from poor countries makes employment and wealth , despite -- or , rather because of . for innovation and in rich countries their goods increasing demand helps poor . , increased wealth . this virtuous circle is still seen by globalization ’s enemies as in fact a vicious one , encouraging exploitation of the poor and vulnerable . it enter the debate on questions of universal principles of justice and human rights is here . . undoubtedly , there is universal , impartial application of values be made is a strong case . .
that how in 18@@ 00 , after british prime minister theresa may , the first foreign politician . was abe . is . in some important ways , japan has benefited greatly from being under america ’s wing , and from the postwar constitution , which is not just pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression . constitutionally unable to take part in military adventures , except as a highly paid goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like the countries in western europe , could concentrate on rebuilding its industrial power . but the democracy are still proud of installing after 1945 is that americans . interference hindered us has also been reported . . was on the war of cold the frontlines , japan .
was magnified by television , print , and internet journalists all of this economic legerdemain . it to argue that anyone who read or listened to english-language media coverage of the campaign could have learned anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policy was likely to be better for america is difficult . from a small number of good stories in the business press . blame for this part is borne by the profession of economics . nobel prize winners such as edward prescott have no business talking about the benefits of tax cuts without pointing out that a tax cut accompanied by spending increases is not a tax cut at all , but rather a tax shift onto the future - and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . but much of the problem press corps uncurious , undereducated stems .
they a necessary requirement for any successful national movement is institutional nation-building . have not failed . until now . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of most palestinians – yet , since 1948 , when the united nations proposed partitioning british palestine into two states , a jewish and an arab one , it has failed to move from ideology towards reality . neither violence nor terrorism nor relying on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the us , the european union ) succeeded in delivering statehood , which a people can achieve only by its own agency – what zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” fayyad is the first palestinian leader who did not emerge from the fatah movement , and he may thus understand what other palestinian leaders failed to comprehend , mired as they were in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . it may just be that the palestinians are on the verge of a new chapter in their history – and in the history of israel and the whole region as well .
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also alleviate china ’s geostrategic concerns about the future of the korean peninsula . china has serve as a invasion route or serve become part of a chain of encirclement could be feared . for centuries . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi establish for invading china for a beachhead invaded the korean kingdom . . under the dynasty of ming , china fought beside korea 's japanese army in response . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to prevent japan from dominating korea .
it because the problem can not be solved with the conventional policy responses , it 's a slant that merits attention . , but . the “ official ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or alter a large but unpredictable number of human jobs . at the same time , embracing new technology is considered necessary for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success . thus , disruptions to existing work patterns should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” by adapting education and social-security systems to the needs of an automation-driven job market .
first , cut leadership 's local capacity , develop . 's than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it less difficult . to developing and technical scientific capacity yet , technology and science the impact of ultimate depends on all three factors . so african nations must invest in scientific and technological education and training . strategies that scientists technologists and local employment opportunities offer must also be created by each nation .
the code of conduct on the field – where we expect players to give their all under clear rules that are swiftly enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . by this code of conduct , all non-profit and for-profit organizations around the world are expected . : fif@@ a is not a special case in this sense . and that is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade from view . they must the leadership of a clean sweep and its governance structures a complete overhaul be addressed me . . as any large multinational private or public organization ; how it is governed , fifa is as complex .
young people using tablets , laptops , or mobile phones , and instead of the news with the home-delivered physical morning newspaper . have largely . in the west . revenue have been facebook online giants and google vacuumed him . . having laid off large numbers of staff , operating often , faced many bankruptcies in recent years . is the industry . in the united states , the number of full-time journalists has 20 % since 2001 dropped . . publish only online , or have closed . is some titles of grand .
the 1940s in the countries , hungary in 1956 , chile after the 1973 coup , and iran after the 1979 revolution came , people . was immigrant workers dependent for decades industry during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge at any time , much less during a period of profound economic crisis . but there have as well as swe@@ des received have done the bosnian immigrants . . refugees have come increasingly from the middle east and the horn of africa in the new century .
have acquired a tech company since the beginning of 2015 is those companies one-third . foreign firms are also rushing to take advantage of europe ’s tech talent . their european tech hubs main expansions announced have google , facebook , and amazon . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion took place last year – compared to just $ 3.3 billion in 2014 – including softbank ’s purchase of the british semiconductor-design firm arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase of nxp semiconductors . another study , by the boston consulting group , points out that many small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , baltic , and nordic countries – rank well above the us in so-called “ e-intensity , ” which covers it infrastructure , internet access , as well as businesses , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities .
is no exception , china 's dream . has ranged from puzzlement to derision , public reaction . after slogan 's government decade , the chinese public wants substance . this a real challenge provides xi . . he in the ccp of and allies friends has risen to the top . .
begin in major cities , a corruption end calling between party officials , demonstrations . china ’s government decides that it can not risk further strife and announces a package of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoffs , including direct financial support for exporters and intervention in the currency markets to weaken the renminbi . in the us , president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , to a severe credit crunch , and a sudden flood of low-priced imports , china led . , which 's already . leaves the administration of romney in a bind . he across-the-board import duties on chinese export announces against his economic advisers the advice .
continue to to be lenient towards top bankers under these circumstances bend over . would be the administration . , why ? i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – payments made to individuals or even to political campaigns . the power of lobbying of big financial players reflect , and it does not even appear . that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were not stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of that legislation ( for example , there is currently a huge fight around the “ volcker rule , ” which would limit proprietary trading by megabanks ) . but mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter .
in fact , much of what happened in bosnia – including the effort , in its aftermath , to realize concepts of universal justice – has applications for the contemporary world . who can find many of its features in syria today bosnian war recall . seems unstoppable the violence , and seems hopelessly divided among warring factions to syria . been unable to achieve much less agreement on a way , action any unity forward is the international community . there important differences are of course .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign intervention , unilateral us efforts to maintain overwhelming offensive superiority would only trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . this dilemma largely technological solution is borne by some strategists of american . their approach , a concept called “ air-sea battle , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by the proliferation of precision-strike weaponry . officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of “ air-sea battle ” against any particular country . for example , iran ’s possession of precision-strike capabilities – and a much more hostile relationship with america – would warrant new us initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerabilities .
should she take up an important role at this stage ? as a woman , i pursue happiness . , or would she ? the nudge she needs gives her daughter . , mrs. wat@@ ana@@ be observed . mrs. watanabe how the tide turns seeing has a talent . . find happiness in marriage and children , and grab the opportunity at work . is is her advice .
we ca n't do everything alone although we can and will continue the fight against corruption . our efforts is crucial is international support . a positive sign here is the recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to complete the nuclear power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky , which will compensate for the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . euroatom is also helping with a loan of $ 585 million to finance repairs at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear power plants . in addition to closing chernobyl , we will introduce western nuclear safety standards and renew cooperation with the imf via the extended fund facility program : in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the deal .
wanted to make a difference and amazingly they did : their energy and cohesion put an end to communist rule is the people of russia . institutionalized democracy , but revolutionary excitement was n't 1980 's and early 1990 's late had . it what new political institutions would emerge from democratic emotion sea was expected . . to mere formality has been reduced . instead of political life . although there soviet days resembles that . , there soviet oppression 's nothing . .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . but some initial lessons for international politics – and for western , particularly european , foreign policy – merit serious consideration . although socioeconomic causal factors the political were known by the revolts was almost everyone . to be stable even when it is known to be problematic is the familiar . : because politicians and analysts are unwilling to anticipate ruptures , we knew the phenomena , but as is often true in crises that become systemic . . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and most of the west continue to regard as an island of “ stability . ” )
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , which has caused their borrowing costs to rise and introduced new market-based challenges to the reform process . nonetheless , because china is a net lender to the world , lgfv debt has no global systemic implications . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) at the end of 2011 , its land and fixed assets are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that even if asset values were written down by half , local governments would remain solvent . this leaves only the issue of debt servicing . the government has to split revenues between central and local governments and enable local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds announced fiscal reforms . to resolve .
even before the crisis allowed many controversial social changes , income inequality ranging , he felt free-market ideology dominance . “ progressive ” social liberalism and “ conservative ” free-market economics seemed to be two sides of the same coin . but be deflected by impersonal economic laws invoking could not the 2008 crisis failed . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the necessary condition for economic progress , it seems unlikely that democracies will now vote to reinstate the social conditions before the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . racial and gender equality are now backed by clear majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies such as trade protectionism and strict immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys .
as we predicted almost 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period , for the simple reason that its workforce growth will have peaked . while pessimists will no doubt find validation in the further chinese growth disappointments that are to come , optimists can point to the fact that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % growth in germany . at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would actually be quite extraordinary . it to grow at a much faster rate than china , simply because its workforce still has a lot of growing left to do will be equally predictable . . whether india can productivity-enhancing reforms implement strong is the question of real .
equally important is the contextual intelligence that allows a leader to vary the mix of these skills in different situations to produce the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” his superb organizational ability , his forward-looking vision demonstrated these skills in his calm response . during his campaign obama . in addition , his contextual intelligence about world politics has been shaped from the bottom up with experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american politics was shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago . to demonstrate these leadership skills in his almost flawless transition , obama continued . he to strong subordinates , showed openness . , and he selecting hillary clinton , his primary opponent as his secretary of state .
moderate voices long last breaking through are and with the jihad culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country 's international credibility , with pakistan 's economy in a tailspin . . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in the dawn , pakistan 's largest-circulation newspaper , that " pakistan 's singular preoccupation with kashmir ... has been self-defeating . domestically , it the economic , social and political development of country has thwarted . . internationally , -LSB- it -RSB- and his reputation has diminished the stature of country . internationally , [ it ] has diminished the country 's stature and left its reputation smeared . even its spiritual development has been warped by the proliferation , popularization , and increase in relative power ... of religious groups that represent an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . "
is matched by modernization from below , based on private initiative -- ie , that initiated by government and under its pressure -- : gref 's program , too , the president 's style is emb@@ le@@ matic . . dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , deregulation , and encouraging competition is undeniably liberal ideas . gre@@ f program create effective private land ownership seeks in addition . deregulation ( " debureaucratization , " really ) will make life easier for new businesses by reducing the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats and by decreasing the number of demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also big sources of bribery ) . enhancing competition will mean putting emphasis on antitrust policy and reducing state subsidies .
a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , an initially muddled response , debates and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a common response , that there is no other alternative , he driven by the realization . : look familiar with the pattern . in today ’s disagreements lie the roots of a stronger union . the public thinks as attempt some utopian endeavor , the european project no longer . increasingly , the eu is coming to be seen as a practical – and absolutely essential – mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet their common challenges . are indeed and he to a world that is more dangerous , divided , i 'm waking . . is the people of the eu .
in other words , would i have followed in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to exchange views with and advise its dictator – and were paid for their services ? pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly having cozied up to qaddafi have been reported . is these scholars . sir howard davies chose to resign as director of the lse , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) and took money for the school from the libyan regime . there is a strong sentiment that academics and institutions that collaborated with such an odious regime – often with the encouragement of their governments , no doubt – suffered a grave lapse of judgment . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous stance during the uprising has revealed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate posture in recent years .
obama the escalatory potential of responding with cyber measures or with a cross-sector response such as sanctions faced difficult choices . in 2016 . want to take steps that might themselves the election disrupt did n't . is the administration . so , eight days before the vote , the us sent russia a warning about election meddling over a hotline – created three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents – that connects the nuclear risk reduction centers in both countries . because to slow or halt , the hacking activity russian seemed . , the obama administration a warning as a successful exercise cited . but the goals of main had already achieved the russians . , some critics say .
once it is established , support would be made available to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate plans for the provision of education to children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . an injection of financing , developed in partnership with governments supporting a common strategy . , would the education of the immediate delivery in emergency cases enable . by strengthening the system at its weakest point , providing a bridge to longer-term development , fill the gap of services in coordination and provision . will therefore be provided by the fund . if this initiative could have provided 12 months of emergency support , helping the country until it could reinstate education according to its national plans , it been before the earthquake in ecuador in place . in a more protracted crisis , like that of syria , the funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the support of the international community , a long-term financing strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay the principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank .
for all his deep emotional attachment to the idea of israel embracing all of historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with viable , secure borders was to accept a palestinian state alongside it , equally secure and viable . they would the enormously sensitive issue of palestinian refugees in the return find a mutually agreed solution . , and share jerusalem as a capital . . rabin ’s murder was a catastrophe from which the peace process has never recovered . since has shown anything like commitment and capacity his far-sighted vision to deliver a negotiated two-state solution , no israeli leader . ehud olmert , e@@ hu@@ d barak came close , but not close enough .
some might this could be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent life were to be a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth , i think . . but that and sa@@ gan mean what schneider is not . . instead , they the energy gradients of matter organized in structures , i say . make a distinction between matter and energy . they consider a phenomenon drinkers have been aware of which beer as one example . if you want to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) and turn it upside down , the water will come out in uneven glugs .
the notion of argentina as a country with infinite promise became a desaparecido , the name given to those who disappeared in the dirty war of the 1970 ’s . we lost no other idea our principle 's organizing has replaced it . we to imagine who we are and who we can become , and think about our country how , no longer . a country has become without direction . , argentina . it has n’t been easy living without knowing who we are , and it became even more difficult to live this way as we watched our world crumble .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama halted ) , despite the senate report ’s conclusion that the techniques it employed yielded no valuable intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that many of the people who were detained and tortured were not threats to america ’s security – at least not until us actions made them so . the week the senate report came out , i was reading anand gopal ’s new book no good men among the living , which tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of a supporter of former president hamid karzai , a taliban commander , and a kabul-born housewife who spent years in purdah in taliban country . over and over again , the same story plays out : a local power-broker is willing , even eager , to support the new us-backed government , only to be denounced as a taliban member by a fellow afghan – typically for local political or personal reasons – to unwitting american troops . in the accounts of anyone who has lived in afghanistan , spoken the language , and understood the workings of patronage and power there , there is this pattern .
have given californian voters an enormous -- if guilty -- pleasure must be replacing what they re-elected only a year before with arnold schwarzenegger is a governor . . some members of the opposition in germany would dearly love to do the same to chancellor gerhard schröder , though they have not ( yet ! ) found a film star to replace him . find themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after being elected is several european governments other . beyond europe this is true even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio " lula " da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter having called for a referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity . it seems fades fast nowadays , electoral success .
and , at the same time , the “ opening-up dividend ” was also reaching maturity , and encountering protectionist barriers around the world . china can still tap new markets through efforts such as the “ belt and road initiative , ” but at a considerable cost . requires continuing to the value chain global , further economic reforms move and focusing on new technologies , sustaining rapid growth . the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market allocation of resources and lowering the costs of doing business . and in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base into the internet age .
the iea expects that each of the 195 million people with off-grid solar will get just 170kwh per year – or half of what one us flat-screen tv uses in a year . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of poor people found that while they got a little more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : they did not increase savings or spending , they did not work more or start more businesses , and their children did not study more . what most of us would real access to electricity consider is 170kwh , little wonder . it can not reduce poverty or create jobs , so at this level for off-grid energy will never power a factory or a farm . and it will not help fight the world ’s biggest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which is mostly caused by open fires fueled by wood , cardboard , and dung , and claims 3.8 million lives annually .
disability and death from in low-income countries ncds increased 300 % from 1990 to 2010 . the ncds of the rates of high drive some factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak . are more likely to access to nutrition often face both indoor and outdoor pollution is densely packed urban areas in emerging economies inhabitants . most health systems in these countries are not built for chronic or preventive care and lack basic consumer protections . developing countries tripled was cigarette consumption from 7@@ 000 .
rather , politics itself operationally dysfunctional has become . . to regard politics as a zero-sum game , and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in , and when citizens come on . . both european and american debates have been replete with posturing and tests of will , turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” in chicken , two drivers race toward a cliff ( or toward each other ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of imminent catastrophe . but if neither driver concedes , both are destroyed .
have not the growth in markets is technological change . kept pace is political institutions . when ordinary egyptians , having organized themselves via social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and toppled former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , it seemed that technology would necessarily boost democracy . be co-opted by authoritarian governments or terrorists , and used to spread false news , influence electoral processes , and create deep divisions and confusion in societies could easily be these platforms of digital . , but it was clear . in the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their ability to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continues to allow them to largely escape the purview of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work to prevent corporate-base erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will pose huge challenges , as human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to “ choose ” embryos with desired characteristics .
the us will require more federal revenues , not less confronting other problems addressing pan@@ op@@ ly . which in turn the basic research depends , the result of technological innovation is increases in standards of living , for example , . but government support federal of research as a percentage of gdp what it was 60 years ago is comparable . is now . . while trump the candidate criticized the growth of us national debt , he now proposes tax cuts that would add trillions to the debt in just the next ten years – not the “ only ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim would be added , thanks to some growth miracle that leads to more tax revenues . yet the key lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these do not lead to faster growth , but only to lower revenues .
this a real achievement is still , while it will presumably lack the public option many of us prefer . the same middle-of-the-road approach can be taken in the second year to address the still-outstanding fiscal issues . can use of the union message , his state . to flesh out a bipartisan strategy for narrowing the budget deficit to sustainable levels , obama this would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establishing an independent commission to submit to congress amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and expenditure reform . but on financial reform , where , as with health care , there is a welter of conflicting proposals , i provide better leadership . needs , obama .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the latest european battleground in a contest between two models of democracy – liberal and illiberal . the overwhelming election victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice party ( pis ) has led to something more akin to regime change than to a routine turnover of democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration has purged the civil service ( including public radio and television ) , packed the constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened the court ’s capacity to strike down legislation . in response , the european commission has launched an official inquiry into potential violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . moreover , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s foreign currency rating – from a - to bbb + – and warned of perhaps more cuts to come as it accuses the government of weakening “ the independence and effectiveness of key institutions . ”
furthermore , in the shiite tradition , the shiite messiah , the mahdi the strategy will be to intimidate all his enemies upon his return to earth . but there to khamenei and the leaders of the islamic republic than the social dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement brewing inside the country is more frightening . , and nothing to fear one more susceptible . only a small likelihood of its nuclear program military attack is convinced . , the regime seems . it sanctions can the collapse bring about does not believe . . a threat pose much . do not appear . , therefore , external forces .
for their own political reasons , the british put the sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population – in control of the whole country , and even imported a sunni arab hashemite prince to rule over their creation . ever since , the country could be held together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts , all put down in bloody fashion by the ruling sunni minority . throughout its history , modern iraq has always been the most oppressive of the arab countries . saddam ’s rule was only the most brutal in a long line of sunni regimes . it was this sunni hegemony – and not merely that of saddam ’s ba’athist regime – that was toppled by the united states .
proteins that retain the same function across very different species – generally the case with orthologs – are expected to keep the same fold . the sequence of amino acids that these orthologs in the protein chains make can vary significantly but . can be as low as 25-30 % sometimes two orthologs of sequence identity extent . , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of function to evolutionary change . makes our complexity puzzling more origin , as it is well known that the number of human genes is deceptively small , merely one order of magnitude larger than that of , say , rice is this conservation of the protein fold across species . if is the proteins structure , where coming from is our complexity . ?
to support reunification provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics . is georgia 's current economic collapse . much confidence inspire does not its only autonomous republic , adzharia , manage relations . they still could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgia would work out any better , but they consider themselves georgians . , the people of adzhar ? the necessity of reviving which requires , first and foremost , political stability , the moribund economy of georgia 's seems like president saakashvili . he refrain from of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia , i accusing russia . is unlikely . , but .
moreover , the scots , welsh , and irish have see eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism come . comes with divisive side effects , but unity aspires . , as in the past imperialism . focus squarely on english national identity , while diluting those of the scottish , northern irish , and welsh , who would return to serving as junior partners in a far less magnificent and rewarding english project , a global britain brexiteer fantasies . the geographic breakdown tells the real story , although socioeconomic factors played some role in the outcome of the brexit referendum . in england , whereas 62 % of scots and 56 % of the northern irish voted to remain , the eu supported leaving . is multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism a bastion .
the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does n’t wreak environmental havoc , and recognizing the importance of adaptation to climate change . in the us , we witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report that called for revamping america ’s energy system with the aim of making clean energy cheap . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” the report comprehensively and convincingly argues that the us government should invest roughly $ 25 billion per year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and a new network of university-private sector innovation hubs to create an “ energy revolution . ” this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” but , promisingly – and surprisingly , given the somewhat toxic state of us politics – it attracted broad support and intelligent commentary from many mainstream pundits .
themselves the center of highly opaque power structures , or degrees made all rulers of four african of north . the office rather than and family person . depends in their countries . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is not as simple as it seems . the problem boils down to overcoming possible resistance – from both the elite and the public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . requires ingenuity , interests dealing with us .
applied on president kostunica to comply is international pressure . , and there seems to be almost universal agreement that he should . but the decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future . who milosevic is a war criminal , i agree . is many . now we should listen to the voices coming from belgrade and their cry that milosevic should face trial before his own people , i think . . ultimate moral responsibility for what was done by milosevic rests with serbia ’s people . he to defeat after defeat into genocidal crimes led them . ; they brought him to power , albeit not in a way that conforms precisely with democratic norms .
for starters , we are again moving into what henry kissinger called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” palestinians have been assured via a message from president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy george mitchell , that the israelis will not carry out any “ provocations ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . that there is no written promise to this effect , the palestinians admitted . but that the israelis will not embarrass their american friends , israel is dan shapiro of house adviser white . in exchange , shapiro handed the ultra-orthodox leader of israel ’s shas party an invitation to the white house .
to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( for example , singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( for example , italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) . in the long run , however , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies , where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , like zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . the chinese model combines some of the authoritarian modernization model ’s advantages – centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation from populism , and a superior ability to implement painful but necessary reforms – with leadership turnover by de-personalizing political struggle . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by a desire to keep the party , not any individual , in power .
the dilution of glass-steagall , and its ultimate repeal in 1999 , allowed banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” – enabling them to use depositors ’ savings to trade for their own account , mainly in risky mortgage-backed securities . do two things of further must go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks but the obama . first , capital requirements should be tripled – not just in the us , but across the g-20 – so that banks hold at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . that way , shareholders rather than regulators would behave making banks play the leading role . . second , if banks are “ too big to fail , ” they must be shrunk , so that taxpayers do not need to bail them out every time a crisis erupts .
is , on the whole , a thing of good , and make no mistake . its collapse would trigger a nuclear arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move rapidly toward a nuclear capability , using abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . risk gamble be would to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave responsibly .
layer of significance offered layer , the concert itself . the germany of beethoven has the hitler of the germany ashes been born . . a globally admired , war-abhorring , democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country , peace-loving . is germany today . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany , or even to the west , but to all of humanity . his scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode reflects the truly global aspirations of the enlightenment .
instead , up to now at least , the government has mostly been providing ( high-interest ) loans rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . have bailed been in the oligarchs nor the government re@@ financed only $ 10 billion of owed in 2008 by russian banks and firms in $ 50 billion external debt . apparently , the terms offered by the government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) have turned out to be right on target . prevail in this crisis was reasonable economic policies . , how ?
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s luxurious florida estate mar-a-lago , at least part of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again , off-again negotiations , north korea ’s nuclear weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed much like the one that the west faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against each other in europe . its allies and the us successfully the europe of the challenge in the 20th century without war navigated . but card must persuade xi to adopt a different policy toward north korea to success in east asia achieve comparable . . every war of deterring the other from attacking became the union of soviet and the us .
that an absurd idea is not . . there is a long and distinguished tradition of catholic social thought . than even avowed christian democrats are prepared to contemplate , including a much wider distribution of ownership and mechanisms for involving workers in management , ask the capitalism of much larger transformations . would seriously but taking these tradition . theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new look ” through a selective appeal to religion – and wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy . they should remember , though , that starting a kulturkampf is to play with fire : it might be possible to instrumentalize religious passions for a time ; but such passions can not permanently be controlled from above .
of course japan should not wait until international investors start doubting its willpower , and consumption tax in an eventual rise requires fiscal sustainability . . and the timing tactics is is the problem . between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility , a good compromise . seems , postponing the second consumption-tax increase . but this brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . two ones of golden less guarantee lost demand policies will not alone prevent two more .
usually supine congressional republicans panicked and told trump and his team that his policy of tearing families apart could ruin their chances in november ’s midterm elections . drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers was threatening . separating families . and they had been willing to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his marriage to the first lady , melania ( including apparent payoffs to a porn star and others for silence ) , in exchange for policy influence and appointments of social conservatives to the supreme court and throughout the federal judiciary . the first lady laura their mothers taking kids spoke against the policy . is unusually for her . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ”
does not from russia , mean estrangement . but membership in the eu . besides , encourage russia 's imperial ambitions will eventual eu membership excluding ukraine . this will for it can rule an empire only as a militarized state , russia 's chances a full democracy becoming . . it is a good club mark that people become members clamor . furthering the union 's ambitions to be a global power would create a political unit with including ukraine for an ever-larger eu .
businesses were encouraged with loans government subsidies . schools and training centers were established . the refugees the economy and society of the southern , greek cypriot sector of the island were absorbed . within a few years . is an outcome of the boost the economy absorption of refugees received as in post-world war ii west germany anyone visiting the greek cypriot part of the island nowadays will not find refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists are unaware of the fact that more than a third of the greek cypriots they encounter are refugees or descendants of refugees .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % per year since 2000 , may well have reduced poverty in the southwest of the country ; but in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . to greece apparent from china are similar trends . alongside the revolt against globalization and democracy declining public trust , inequality . . that the rich are getting richer because they are not held to the same rules as everyone else , many suspect across the developed and developing worlds . it ’s not hard to see why .
russian officers , he reported , eastern ukraine in directly command large military operations , including the important transport center and capture siege of debaltseve in february . but the threat beyond ukraine extends far . russia posed . russia nuclear warheads and enough missiles is one country to destroy us . after all . his willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status , as has done its and geo@@ political economic influence . it has also nuclear threats veiled made against denmark , not only has it revived the cold war-era tactic of sending military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has said , it is “ better to err with hope , than to be right with despair . ” the worst is not inevitable contrary to what many democratic cassandras think . are fighting back in many places , and have n't yet triumphed authoritarians and populists . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have similar chances of decaying . it remains uncertain model will win which for now .
the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept the deal “ voluntarily . ” one could as being mere rhetoric , i dismiss this dispute . . but , using the talmudic logic , one can also show that there are mechanisms that can – and should – be used to place pressure on the parties in the interest of obtaining superior voluntary outcomes . there are the talmudic passage two preponderant interpretations . one can change minds argues that turns turns .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe launched in 2012 has come under growing scrutiny . but japan ’s current travails , which have brought a concomitant decline in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation – 24 % over the last year – against major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and the unemployment rate has fallen to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate profits have soared , and tax revenues have increased by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 billion ) .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis seems to be over . in 2010 , asset markets performed . returned growth in the united states and parts of europe private-sector deleveraging continued , but rising public-sector debt deficits was counter-@@ balanced . . and emerging-market growth returned to pre-crisis levels and appears to be sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows .
is it some to have nuclear weapons and deny them to others is hypocritical . in sovereign states world ? if had the today of bomb in no one , it would be best if it were not invented . but that were taken in the past , history depends on the paths . suppose it were 1939 , and whether the us should invent the bomb is debating . , states were observed . . they might all none get it should have argued . .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-driven and export-led economy to one underpinned by services and domestic consumption is firmly underway . and that ’s good news not just for china , but also for the future of the global economy . the 2016-17 edition of the blue book of china ’s commercial sector by fung business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences maps the change . china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit growth . has begun to climb , even as the pace of investment has fallen , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp is household consumption .
at $ 65 billion , these stimulants the market of global is estimated . part of the attraction of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( no need to shoot up , snort , or smoke ) . the body works : users experience increased confidence , sociability , and energy the way speed . this buzz is considered harmless : “ pills do not kill or spread hiv/aids , ” it is said . but what must come down , goes up .
since to systematically examine and document the environmental consequences of wars , i have ever made . , attempts . studies of the balkan wars and the many wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 's have been launched through international organisations like the united nations environment progam ( unep ) . have not yet received the attention they require , unfortunately , liberia , sierre leone , and the ivory coast -- the wars of africa . we learned about the consequences of environmental of wars , what have we ? first of all the effects type of environment and the war of the type depend .
paris – whoever wins september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come once again for a major franco-german initiative . regardless of their economic conditions or their confidence – or lack of it – in each other , france and germany are more than ever jointly responsible for the future , if not the very survival , of the european project . the union of european franco-german leadership is there possible ? it 's out of the question , but would be a good idea in a club of three , she joining great britain . . in europe , any leadership role . has largely excluded itself . , britain .
was dr. jo@@ k does , and who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 's , a team including experienced and internationally renowned upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh when the former government lost the vote this past may , and singh 's government came into office , there were fears that singh would be hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners , who would demand that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their participation in the new ruling coalition . to rest puts these fears . is chidambaram 's 2004/2005 budget . it shows how to combine a full-speed ahead approach to market reforms with urgently needed attention to poverty : a lesson of brilliant in development economics is the document . . the budget all countries of developing is a model . in short .
and severe consequences have is such fear . for example , on the ukrainian and russian economies , the impact of 2008 financial crisis might ultimately be behind the recent war there . over those five years , real per capita gdp in ukraine and 46 % in russia rose 52 % . : according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia to 2007 , she experienced spectacular growth . . that is history now : only 70 % in ukraine , and only 1.3 % in russia was gdp growth capita gdp real . . the discontent generated by such disappointment may help to explain ukrainian separatists ’ anger , russians ’ discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and to support the separatists .
which measures can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? how can we within europe , narrow the current differences in development welfare and material ? fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . so counteracting them must be supranational , too is supranational . , the threats facing the world today . but this is impossible without a clear european identity – and thus a common interest to be asserted and defended .
barcelona – after world war i , when millions of european civilians were made refugees , forced out of their homelands by enemy occupation or deportation , an international regime was developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those who had been uprooted . it provide safe haven to desperate people is europe 's power . this time , and a century later . yet it risen with many of its responses failing to match the urgency of the situation to the occasion has n't . . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people have crossing mediterranean africa of from north reach europe attempted . some 1,800 people have died as a result – more than twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 .
for example , us sanctions eventually brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the united nations security council , isolated iran financially . us sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop , and by the deployment of similar measures by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . we would have been far less effective , without eu participation . but they at best are and temporary fragile . , they lend credibility to us sanctions . it 's hard to imagine that china or russia would back further joint action against iran , even if the agreement began to unravel only a year after was reached is iran 's deal . .
india ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil , and over the next two years indian diplomatic missions will open in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . it now has three : west and central africa , east and southern africa , and west asia and north africa ; had a single africa division until 2003 , the indian foreign ministry . a study by the federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry identified five main sectors that can act as “ engines of growth ” to boost indo-africa trade : pharmaceuticals and the health sector , information technology , water management , food processing , and education . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner in africa . indian imports % of more than 96 exceeds $ 3 billion . is bilateral annual trade turnover .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami has recently the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate in which , the negotiations between israel outlined a new peace . . be extended to the geneva negotiations on the syrian civil war , with the greater role of saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt countries should be this paradigm . already-muddy negotiations further complicate could involving regional powers . the goal must therefore be clarity and equilibrium . only with a balanced negotiation process , guided by regional and global actors , can power in the middle east a balance of stable be achieved .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . it can mean that something , such as a person or institution , is transparent , as opposed to secretive , or 's possibly vulnerable , and accessible , something . the first meaning is often applied to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not match opportunity with vulnerability ) , which have always driven structural economic changes , especially with respect to employment . structural change can be simultaneously disruptive beneficial . to strike a balance between the abstract principle of openness and concrete measures to limit the worst effects of change , and they had long .
the fed indirect ways , experimental tried to support growth . faced with this unfortunate reality . by injecting liquidity using multiple means , it raised financial asset prices well above what the economy ’s fundamentals warranted . the fed hoped that this would make certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) feel richer , enticing them to spend more and encouraging companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” proved quite feeble . so of the same , which led to a host of unintended consequences and risks of collateral damage that i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in town , i do better . felt affected . is fed .
unaddressed remains what is abnormal brain activations the cause of root . we three intertwined ideas are spinning . on studies suggesting that schizophrenia patients suffer from reduced brain connectivity is based . is the first . like these language may begin to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems , some groups perceiving and is responsible . . it if the orchestra the string section suddenly decided disregarding everyone else to play its own music , it is . .
the andes antarctica shrinking glaciers i 've seen in the loss of biodiversity the amazon of brazilian , i saw the effects of de@@ fore@@ station . could be threatened if sea levels rise , including tobago and trinidad portions . but to seal a successor deal to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year will require visionary leadership bold . there must to cut greenhouse-gas emissions while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse impact of climate change offering rich countries , and fair be ambitious . reached the agreement .
since the 1990 ’s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experience . while singapore ’s political system could not readily be transferred to a huge country like china , it constitutes a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china has developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders that involves decades of training and a battery of exams for officials at various stages of their careers . an economic boom that has lifted poverty several hundred million people out have over@@ seen . is these meritocratically selected leaders . at the same time , however , repression of religious expression political dissent , corruption problems have worsened .
there 's nothing left of franco-american goodwill it appears today . one of these periods since ii war close many times has been found between the two allies . the united states vetoed reelection , advocated by france , of un secretary general boutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wanted to " enlarge the role " of the general secretary in reforming the world body . ( on both sides this spat was rather paradoxical , if one remembers that de gaulle wanted to diminish as much as possible the powers of the un , to which he contemptuously referred to as a " thingamajig " , and that america owes over a billion dollars in past due contributions to the un . ) washington to hear any talk about conferring on a european , as france demands , command of the allied fleet in the mediterranean does n't want . at the same time .
revenue disparities reduces is better trade across borders . for example , and that lowering tariffs also reduces wage gaps based on race and immigration status , that a ten-percentage-point decrease in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the wage gap between men and women . , the 2015 white house report found . moreover , increased trade openness is associated particularly in developing countries with lower rates of infant mortality and higher life expectancy . free trade states to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased investment in infrastructure , and a more dynamic economy over time . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which means millions more people lifted out of poverty .
but hong kong ’s advantages are now at risk , largely due to its own insecurities . as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s remarkable economic growth and development in recent decades has eroded hong kong ’s leading position as a center for finance , logistics , and trade . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s foreign trade , and its gdp amounted to nearly one-fifth of china ’s . it far outperformed shanghai – mainland china ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade .
is either to see the uk to leave its customs union , or to keep the uk in , by making a political commitment to take british interests into account is the eu available alternatives . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable . finally , it possible to avoid reestablishing a hard border between the uk and the republic of ireland after brexit would make the customs union eu remaining . she how that could actually be achieved concerning offered only vague suggestions . though may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal . brexit will remain , and , a lose-lose proposition .
the search for the essential traits of a leader dominated the field of leadership studies until the late 1940 ’s , and remains common in popular discourse today . a tall handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ looks like a leader . ” and that corporate ceos are taller than average , that tall men are often favored . , various studies show . but some little over five feet tall were napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping such , the most powerful leaders . it has been broadened and more flexible made , but it studies of leadership has not vanished . .
globalization is as human history as old can be defined as interdependence at inter-continental distances which . medieval europe and asia connected to the ancient silk route , peoples and religions witness the migration . because it is becoming quicker and thicker , it is different . , but globalization today . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , and america 's europe could communicate in a minute . in london using a telephone to order goods from around the world to be delivered to his house by the afternoon , maynard keynes economist john described the possibility of english .
for example , an endowment or pension fund might consider basing its payout decisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a simple weighted average of past returns or end-period asset values ( the normal practice now ) . of course , you can argue and that we will return to the more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances , that post-crisis regulatory reform will eventually resolve the problem of periodic systemic risk . . i would n't bet on this happening but that systemic risk is persistent and resistant to regulatory efforts to eliminate it , the historical evidence says . regulatory arbitrage will continue financial innovation .
on a national electricity grid that uses low-emission forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired plants that capture and store the carbon-dioxide emissions , either technology will depend . all of these technologies will require public funding alongside private investment . third , the us recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy for getting the government ’s own finances back in order . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times while boosting spending on war . the result is a massive budget deficit , which will expand to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
credible monitoring requires five criteria the 2005 declaration of principles of international election observations according . first , the observers must be autonomous – financially and otherwise – in their relationship to the host country . second as well as to all of the technologies involved must be access to all aspects and phases of the election process granted un@@ limited . . . third , face no meeting restrictions with political actors in all authorities must be observers . be any threat or pressure of retaliation subject by any government authority must not be fourth .
they should be safe , too , and reasonably comfortable . they should run not only at the right time , but at reasonable intervals on time . . they should be affordable , more important . it that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most significant , she becomes evident . , it grows longer . this example is relevant for the politics of public services , which dominates debate in many countries because it lies at the heart of the big problems of both government budgets ( and cutting them back ) and taxes ( and their reduction ) .
landing is impossible in most places , we saw helicopters aerial drops attempt . told us that they often miss and the supplies land up thousands of feet or below in deep forests , but people . done with little thought , distribution is haphazard and uncoordinated . we throw clothes food and packets from the top of trucks , causing a riot saw relief . . keep the watch of weak , hustlers
for example , in carrying out the manhattan project ( to produce the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , the us government set a remarkable technological goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources needed to get the job done . on time , scientists engineers and provided in both cases . the example of atomic bombs might seem an unpleasant one , yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to cooperate on war technology , should n’t we do at least the same to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , the process of “ directed technological change , ” in which bold objectives are set , milestones are identified , and timelines are put into place , is much more common than many realize . industry and government roadmaps series was built . , the information-technology revolution that has brought us computers , smart phones , gps , and much more .
but to gain from an alliance with the world 's economic and political leader remains only anti-americanism . with europe russia , especially economic links , human contacts , and social interactions are priority . , good relations . the eu 's leading members a foreign-policy active engagement will also benefit from russia . but in remains unrealistic and inefficient , a strategic alliance with the eu in foreign security policies and . europe will in this field , grow rather than weaker . remains most likely . .
and with the emergence of new diseases such as zika – and the revival of old foes like bubonic plague – there is no question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . moreover , globalization has the spread of communicable diseases facilitating compounded danger . . be devastating more today would between 50 and 100 million people killed . we for strengthening health-care delivery in low - and middle-income countries need a comprehensive approach . , to prevent such catastrophic outcomes . these countries need help improving drug delivery and managing chronic diseases such as cancer and diabetes , the economies of an immense burden which impose in particular .
and , if there are to be wealth taxes , instituting them now to take effect only in the future – and only if inequality becomes much worse – would preempt the perception that the rules had been changed after the game had ended . the advantage of income-tax increases is that they could be based not just on current income , but on some average of income over the course of years , and could allow deductions for investments , thus sharing some features with wealth taxes without penalizing those who saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , could help to promote an international dialogue about appropriate future policy toward inequality , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occurs , long-term plan one or a few countries legislated . . create among the countries of a more uniform tax response room , thus reducing the ability of the super-rich to evade taxation by switching location would that . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality .
as i grew older , i speak out , too vowed , and many spent years in jail for daring to against china speak . tied to work i began in the early 2000s printing and distributing tibetan-language books was in a prison of chinese , my first stay . be important readings on culture , religion , tibetan politics is these texts . , i thought . they punished me accordingly , and however , viewed them as a challenge to their rule , chinese authorities . . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began looking for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – massive protests in warsaw have made headlines around the world in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party that would lower the retirement age of supreme court justices , effectively forcing out all judges over the age of 65 and allowing the pis to pack the court with its own tame justices . provides the supreme court first president at six years for an independent judiciary is the polish constitution . that means judges can not be removed by legislation – at least not constitutionally . yet the new law enables polish president andrzej duda to replace up to three-fifths of the supreme court ’s justices , including the chief justice , in 2018 alone .
back in his radical days , the former mayor of london , ken livingstone famously if voting changed anything , they would abolish it , i quipped . . it turns out that elections do shake things up in latin america . the latest proof : mauricio funes , the standard bearer of the fmln – until not long ago a marxist guerilla movement – has just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this what been ruled , by hook or by crook , by a reactionary oligarchy for as long as anyone is a country . is remarkable . . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory is peacefully accepted – as it has been so far – it means that latin america has truly come a long way .
put it well in 1945 : the friedrich ha@@ ye@@ k economist . “ [ t ] here is beyond question a body of very important but unorganized knowledge which can not possibly be called scientific in the sense of knowledge of general rules : the knowledge of particular circumstances and place . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses unique information of which beneficial use might be made , but of which use can be made only if the decisions depending on it are left to him or are made with his active cooperation . ” the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of vulnerability to deception . that ’s why channeling dispersed knowledge into new businesses requires a regulatory framework that favors the genuinely enlightened and honest .
those immersed in the negotiations is perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed . with more than a thousand points still to be agreed , all the policymakers i ’ve spoken to recently say that they can not see how a meaningful deal can be reached by december in copenhagen . in reality , everyone is gearing up behind the scenes for a “ copenhagen 2 , ” and what those involved in the negotiations are calling “ an even greater slog . ” even if some sort of communiqué is cobbled together in december – and countries with elections coming up , such as the united kingdom , will push for one – it is hard to believe that it will contain sufficient detail or reflect the proper level of commitment to have the impact so desperately needed . “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , partly because – and this may sound strange at first – it is all about climate change .
if is approaching a tipping point , these us have been championing evs as one of the solutions to climate change . , and more people are arriving at the same conclusion . sales of electric cars have increased dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 were registered in 2016 – nearly half in china . still , it is human nature to resist change , and remain hesitant for many buyers of prospective . that how the priority of highest must be addressing consumption bias is . growth continues in ev usage and sales , i ensure . requires several changes .
rather than integrating global system 's trading would be focus on preferential agreements . would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as adjudicator of trade disputes is the wto gradual marginalization . the success of the wto ’s adjudication system is reflected in its widespread acceptance . they been generally have accepted , wto decisions have had serious negative effects on a trading partner , when . this in global governance constitutes a remarkable advance . .
the energy market – most importantly , the market for natural gas – and the market for tourist rentals were liberalized , and the process for acquiring an investment license was streamlined . made those that governed greece during the last 30 years and thus are responsible for driving it to ruin in the face of fierce criticism has been reported . is all of this . it how reforms can deep structural problems help restart an economy . understand is as if they ca n't . . it add the first review of the program to its european and international counterparts is time . , now that the greek government has delivered on its part of the bailout deal . putting the economy on the path to growth skyrocketing unemployment coping : this will allow the government to proceed to the second stage .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge , but the leader of the foremost global power continues to wash his hands of the matter . at the beginning of november , us president donald trump gave official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thus confirming a decision he had announced in 2017 . the withdrawal will the day after the us presidential election in november 2020 become effective . , and the notification came as soon as the allowed of agreement . to the pact , that 's not party . , the states of united will remain only in the world . following most powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
it 's a real stretch to corporate earnings state bemoan us for starters . commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits from current production , adjusted for inventory and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a solid 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . while that is down from the 11 % peak hit in 2012 – owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts pressure on profit margins – it hardly attests to a chronic earnings problem . far from anemic , the current gdp share of after-tax profits 7.6 % post-1980 average is fine . . similar verdict support is which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , trends in corporate taxes . .
the widespread prescription of drugs for troubled minds has always ended badly , right back to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all proved to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial did doctors admit that this was so . now anti-depressants -- household names global brands -- are the problem . the prescriptions of a three-fold increase has seen the decade of past . in england , anti-depressants prescriptions now its peak in 1979 match valium . it today 's anti-depressants are not they were touted as being , the drugs of wonder . is now clear . .
the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy in to a less exposed external position with a large ( 50 % at least ) depreciation . have shown little feedback from currency collapse into inflation is most economies of high-unemployment . with unemployment at 20 % , the same is expected in venezuela . to eliminate large taxes on wages so that money wages can rise without an offsetting decline in competitiveness , and will be unpopular with labor for such measures . this is paid on government oil revenues for the devaluation of the favorable effect in the budget .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people face serious water-related challenges – from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority . a global lack to safe drinking water , almost one billion people shall consider this : . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths every day , and annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double the total amount of official development assistance . making matters worse , climate change will with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs and impeding development in poor countries , render water supplies . .
but urban problems must react to all actors of public , not just the police , . because they are on the front line in implementing urban policy , mobili@@ zed as mediators . should be first and foremost . citizens hold responsible these policies fail when . however , address local issues with effective partnerships the most capable are also most knowledgeable . the france events also and that promote social equality , to reinforce policies against discrimination . , the european level point to the need . .
it demonstrates the us example , the world of the only full employment economy , . is also being undermined is the state of welfare . who for years have not worked . , people suddenly must do so , and in america is limited . in europe , however , unemployment remains a " good " job . replacement of earnings via unemployment compensation ( after tax adjustments ) hits 70 % and up .
zurich – repeatedly in recent years there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . yet that never seems to come , renaissance . indeed , of the world , use nuclear power only 30 the countries of more than 200 . in july 2010 , a total of 439 nuclear power plants with a net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) were connected to various national electricity grids , about 1.2 gw ( e ) more than at the beginning of 2006 . roughly 16 % of total energy needs ( up to 25 % in the highly industrialized countries ) are now met by electric energy .
denver – the united states constitution , which turned 225 years old last summer , is a remarkable document : the provisions of a text written in the eighteenth century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . we will senior positions in his second-term administration in barack obama 's president , be reminded the implications of the coming weeks . . in many cases , the process will not be pretty . article ii of the constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the “ advice and consent of the senate , ” including the nomination of senior officials . i guess no idea it would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete , but to require senate confirmation would eventually exceed 1,400 , the officials of the number thought . .
it raises the same question about european solidarity , and the standoff of current over ukraine is energy . as bru@@ e@@ gel has shown a recent study , the eu as a whole could gas imports from russia dispense with some effort . but to regard security of supplies as a matter of common concern , not as an issue that each country must address on its own remains eu member . would be doing . other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own production , pay more for imports , or cut consumption a bit , for example , response to an embargo affecting a country of particular . but this sense of solidarity has been consistently lacking in the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
we 've been an uncontrolled military escalation an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define 12 months of the coming , its commentators as in previous years . that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come , it 's if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . continuing the tradition be appears is the department of justice under president donald trump . to the current impeachment inquiry in representatives of the house thwart , his disposal is surprised by no one .
cut co2 emissions from power plants around the world would an hour switching the lights . but it would be china pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes the equivalent even if everyone in the entire world cut all residential lighting , and this translated entirely into co2 reduction . to increase emissions will cause in fact . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have found , a small decline in electricity consumption does not translate into less energy being pumped into the grid , and therefore will not reduce emissions . furthermore , be offset by the surge from firing up coal or gas stations to restore electricity supplies afterwards will during the hour , entail co2 emissions in a reduction . .
the institute ’s work seems to center on devices that read brain activity . but it also apparently oversees all kinds of construction projects on a vast plot of land adjacent to the headquarters of the federal security service ( fsb ) – the kgb ’s successor organization – and the federal protective service . if we keep following the scientific-money trail , we arrive at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) , which held elections last week . after the organization ’s 2013 elections , in which the kremlin-backed candidates for membership did not perform well , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it was then decided that , to ensure “ fairness , ” the government would approve all candidates , despite the fact that they are academics .
so newspapers what stimulate prurience or outrage , headlines are spinning instead of providing context , depth , and analysis . to put it mildly , the result was disturbing . ranting anchors score the highest trps ; the airing of opinions is the cheapest way to a broadcast hour fill . this reinforces the motivation to engage in sensational speculation , however baseless , as has occurred in sridevi ’s case . more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence , in terms of researching stories and verifying claims .
is sharply divided about how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy is informed opinion dc , washington . with some forecasts projecting a 5 % increase in world output , accelerating growth . are directed is those focused on emerging markets . others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some are even inclined to see a possible “ double dip ” recession . it the picture misses , this interesting debate is . in response to the crisis of 2007-2009 , most countries of industrialized governments some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for large financial institutions put in place . .
's its mix of private optimism and public pessimism this is a political mandate , and that elected nicolas sarkozy as its new president , one puzzling and often overlooked the france . . consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . of course , that rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it ’s far stronger than its european neighbors and almost equal to that of the us . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly show that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . people who are so negative about their common future building their private futures in their families as a nation , i be . , how could it ?
new york – the reception in the united states , and in other advanced economies , of thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing concern about rising inequality . the body of evidence concerning the soaring share of income and wealth at the very top already overwhelming lends further weight . is his book . piketty ’s book , moreover , provides a different perspective on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as a historical anomaly , perhaps caused by the unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events can stimulate . prosperity was widely shared , with all groups advancing , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains in economic growth rapid era . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which all would benefit .
this fall in gdp , though a natural consequence of lower imports of consumption goods , is often mistakenly perceived as something to be avoided , because it seems to imply that output is below its “ potential . ” in a completely flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant increase in unemployment ) could be avoided if the resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could quickly be used to generate exports . but modern manufacturing requires workers very skilled . , and can not be easily transformed into the specialized . the tourism industry could absorb some unemployed retailers in and portugal greece the case . but shops and showrooms can not will remain limited until enough time has passed to build new hotels , recreational facilities , etc is whose capacity . , tourist attractions be transformed .
but it being eased seem to call for tightening is when conditions . is now . , just as fiscal policy was being tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed to call for easing . world economic growth is forecast to be its strongest since 2010 , and has all over advanced economies the output gap . was to fiscal policy loosen , the only advanced economy in 2013 , japan but this year , the united kingdom appears to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and that is assuming recent political ruptures have n’t altered its fiscal orientation , which will be reflected in the chancellor of the exchequer ’s autumn statement . it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies for bringing them down , so are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies in the debt level of government .
and , with demand high and housing supply fixed – at least in the short run – prices go up . second , the 70-year period that began with the widespread diffusion of the automobile – during which one could get nearly anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in half an hour or less – is over . prices depended on location before widespread automobile ownership was there , and carried a premium for proximity to the central city or to the local railroad station . now , with serious congestion slowing traffic in major cities to a crawl , the rental prices of the land gradient is steep once again . if we were willing to shift to denser residential patterns , delayed for a decade . could be the location gradient perhaps this steepening .
with austerity – that is , reducing the deficit , once the recession has ended – recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but once it is , economic performance is even more stable , because the government ’s accounts are in a sustainable position . john maynard keynes famously said , “ in the long run , we are all dead . ” that may a timeline long enough be true . . it 's longer-term considerations dismiss no excuse , but . in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived – and the economy is still alive and kicking .
a famous psychological experiment found that young children who could resist the immediate temptation to eat a marshmallow , and thereby gain two marshmallows in the future , were likelier to thrive as adults than those who could n’t . enjoy higher future incomes and retirement security greater will also save and invest for the future . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut saving , they are merely peddling the bad habits of american culture , which saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) second are global and investment flows , saving . a country such as china , with a high saving rate that exceeds local investment needs , can support investment in other parts of the world that save less , notably low-income africa and asia .
but these “ green energy ” bikes amount to a victory of empty gestures over substance and reason – which makes them sadly representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that , if enacted between now and the target date of 2030 , will cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion dollars a year – and possibly twice as much if politicians make inefficient policy choices . this makes the agreement the costliest in history . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 promises on cutting emissions of carbon dioxide will reduce temperatures by 2100 by just 0.05 ° celsius ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . even if the promised emissions cuts continued throughout the century , the paris agreement would cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ° c. scientists from the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar temperature reduction .
shut out on transfers of military technology and hardware by the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly " encircled " by the " redefined " japan-u.s. alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is particularly anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might , and quickly . humiliated the chinese , who to stop intimidating taiwan with missile tests were forced . is two american aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 intervention . russia , having seen its gross domestic product fall 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to retain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenues . this year did buy two modern destroyers along with anti-ship missiles from russia , despite the kremlin of initial denials . an added worry , both for russia and asia , is that the russian government the unofficial , black market flow of arms is losing control of china . .
however , what comes is remains unanswered . after a election of presidential , change their tune is typically china bashers . but there that continue squeezing american families long after november 6 are likely . , the pressures is nothing typical . . when it comes to china , run painting themselves the risk into a corner . is both obama and romney . take a slippery slope the edge of us could that .
they who was who redefined the political order by obtaining it , she thought full citizenship . in some ways are people . to reach out to people who are coming into our lands from other countries ; and to find a way of recreating our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy ; to calm the fears that our traditions are being undermined is the great task . . we can create a sense that we belong together , even though our reasons for believing so may be different , if we succeed . but increasing individualism – a focus on one ’s own ambitions and economic prosperity – in many countries poses a stubborn obstacle to realizing this vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people – horrifyingly evident in the us health-care debate – is now undermining the very basis of what a modern democratic society is .
but that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still had a heartbeat , so the procedure was out of the question , hal@@ ana@@ var was her husband . if was out the termination , i have developed . , halappanavar died from sep@@ mia . put the prime minister kenny enda on the spot , with activists there , like those in india , arguing that halappanavar died because of a theocratic approach to health care is the ireland protests . irish abortion-rights activists point out that , legally , the life of the fetus does not take precedence over the life of the mother in their country , but it does take precedence over the health of the mother – a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . reverses eastern societies western stereotype as superstition and religious extremism preserves is therefore the halappanavar case .
all countries ’ legitimizing narratives blend historical fact and myth . but , in some cases , historical legacies can gain excessive influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices . that explains why park has sought closer ties with china , even though south korea ’s natural regional partner is democratic japan . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to reach out to park with a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to leave historical grievances out of official policy . the past change is not supported by japan korea and south .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , stock markets are recovering somewhat . is gradually climbing back to its long-term average of 16 is 500 price/earnings ratio p s & . some banks succeeded in repaying at least part of their government-provided capital have , and particular bank shares are rebounding . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may only be a temporary improvement in expectations rather than a sign of permanent recovery , as the size of the banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is probably enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , the total write-offs on financial claims in this crisis will be $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the euro zone and the united kingdom , of which the us alone will have to absorb $ 2.7 trillion .
conceived , perhaps , with the best intentions , the morales model is giving hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but it will only pave the way for frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia . thirty years after the national revolution of 1952 bolivia ’s per capita income remained basically the same , with poverty steady at over 50 % of the population . because it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law , the bolivia of a state-led developmental model is doomed . found in that the money concentrated in the state will surely be redistributed by patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off by corruption , and subjected to social pressures of all sorts , which means . , bolivia . may currently be none of them . whatever remains for wasted public investments , as projects when the financing comes from easy money , i pass cost-@@ benefit analysis . tend , generously provided by mother nature .
remain the terrorism threat deeply concerned not just from abroad , but from people living in france , often with french citizenship , a majority of french citizens . and about homegrown extremism similar fears can other european countries many be observed . . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have kitchen knives delivery cars carried attacks . their activities have fueled french society distrust is growing . although violent extremists are an ultra-minority in the muslim population . the successful military campaign syria returning violent extremists raises new fears . , worse still .
most countries education systems of national exclude refugees or assign them to separate facilities , but while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low - and middle-income countries , have shouldered considerable costs despite the strain on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals . this has social integration entrenches disadvantage . adopted by un member states last december point the way toward addressing this challenge is and refugees migration the two landmark global compacts . on offer is currently . requires far more financing . will achieving the needed educational transformation . as it education amounts the global annual funding gap stands .
asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export boom and strong economic growth is the international monetary fund credits . the same path must follow the untapped markets with its huge and often , africa . play our international partners , but africans themselves must tackle these issues . produce development of international aid the debate , together with the current financial crisis , arguments against development assistance have added weight . . but the argument should not be about whether to provide aid – no one can question the many successes that aid has brought , or its importance in providing a safety net for those who would otherwise be left to suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most of the headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction the decision had caused between the uk and the united states . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to push for adoption of high standards . " and one senior us administration official was quoted accusing the uk of “ constant accommodation of china , which is not the best way to engage a rising power . " it is the us that is advocating the wrong approach in fact . in the uk , the spat of diplomatic from those who believe that the government should adopt a stronger stance on china , the british press served as a occasion . .
indeed , it is hard to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . does n't who , greedy financiers . blame the socialists ? in terms of remedies , the socialists do not that are now by the right , the being proposed . , more than the keynesian solutions offer anything . . has been left without wiggle room since the way towards bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits showed george bush 's w. . french president nicolas sarkozy tries to rekindle growth through the protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and huge investments in public infrastructure , so what more can socialists ask for ?
they also demand faster implementation of the necessary changes to the eurozone ’s economic governance in order to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . a prolonged recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes achieving either the fiscal or the reform targets increasingly difficult , if not impossible . the burden of adjustment can not fall exclusively on the deficit countries – unless , that is , a moral element of “ punishment ” is involved . the core countries , led by germany , distrust the over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reforms if their financing conditions are eased . moreover , they oppose key changes in the eurozone ’s economic governance .
moreover , turkey does n’t seem to care what its allies think . it recently raised yet again by purchasing new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries by within nato eyebrows for example . this any process of peace bode well does n't . . western countries will need turkey more strategic agenda whose goes well beyond the middle east , the russians after all . they will praise both former presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis , when historians the conflict of syria look back . .
it china cooperating promotes its own interests . , the uk is just smart . it a far more representative forum for international leadership is than the g-@@ 7 in principle ; one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis was the elevation of the g-20 's global role . the number of large of participants can make it difficult to reach agreements and get things done : there is , however , the g-20 's emergence downside . be created within the g-20 , thereby providing china with a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight and requires it to assume a commensurate proportion of global responsibility needs is a new g-7 . could be obtained if the eurozone countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire monetary union is at the china table , space .
this the next wbg president options leaves a range . . for example , during his 2012 campaign touted his korean origin . , who appeals to other countries : , the us could select an american . it could an immigrant , such as wbg president james former wolfensohn , who became a us is australian . citizen select a double national or . from an allied country , or it could be non-@@ american candidate . what is important is that the nominee enjoys the trust of the us and most other countries , and can reconcile countries ’ diverse interests in a true spirit of multilateralism .
in terms of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been particularly concerning . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance the chinese narrative ” globally . and in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s sphere of influence . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for complex coordination , has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” to prosper . these include networks such as silks and individual think tanks such as the charhar institute , which also recently established a “ national committee for china-us relations . ”
have since climbed to the mid - $ 50 's , and a barrel in mid-@@ summer crossed $ 40 . is world oil prices . to fall back and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel , today 's oil prices during the iranian revolution of 1979 , only two-thirds the real peak reached are still . but reining in their expectations for economic growth led oil prices the current level high . " higher oil prices are here to stay , " says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . " [ t ] hat has to subtract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . "
cross-border flows of data and information will also be restricted , raising concerns about a “ splinternet ” between the us and china . and its 2017 level collapsed by 80 % . owing to increased us scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment in america . we restrict chinese venture capital investments in the us , and force some chinese firms to make us bar us public pension funds from investing in chinese firms . threaten , new legislative proposals . has also of us-based chinese students and scholars who may be in a position to steal us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage , grown more suspicious . is the us . and china , for its part , will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-controlled international financial system , and to shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the dollar .
looks even without the sinking dollar like a bargain right now debt hardly . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , according a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . will see , even though many firms entered the recession with relatively strong balance sheets , massive almost certainly is next year . state and municipal finances shape worse are . with tax revenues collapsing due to falling home prices and incomes , dozens of us municipalities could well go into receivership , as new york city did in the 1970 ’s .
100 countries more outstripped all national income . , their $ 55 billion . i had confirm that to be among the top nine earners in the united states , you had to pull in at least $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping , gabriel to put these astronomical numbers in perspective . that $ 9,000 per minute is . how much do america ’s highest income earners make compared to the world ’s billion poorest individuals ? it would be the bottom billion about three months income equivalent if the top nine donated their earnings .
american power is , instead , seen as resting on the “ pillar of inspiration ” rather than the “ pillar of action . ” for example , secretary of state john quincy adams famously proclaimed on independence day in 1821 that the united states “ does goes not abroad , in search of monsters to destroy . she independence and freedom is well-@@ wi@@ sher . she is the champion and vindicator only of her own . ” but the only tradition ethical in american policy is not the inspiration of the soft power .
ruled against the right of the united states-based animal rights group people for the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photographs of victims of the holocaust with photographs of animals in factory farms and at slaughterhouses is the court . the posters bear the heading : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a line from the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . according to the court , germany ’s laws on freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s campaign , because to make “ the fate of the victims of the holocaust appear banal and trivial ” was an offense against human dignity . peta was , of course , not arguing that holocaust victims ’ fate was banal or trivial . on the contrary , it was using the holocaust – which we would all agree was utterly horrific – to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer did , that there are parallels between the way the nazis treated jews and the way we treat animals .
rather , they if this is a government running , or operating a dairy farm . , fight to protect their own interests and livelihoods . . this distinction is vital , as we to improve human and environmental wellbeing , apply new technologies . attempt . addressing its downsides , and requires understanding technological progress avoiding obstacles . robots a growing number of workers are replacing , as become increasingly capable of machines . it will not before will be able not but also only to perform more complex tasks for those robots , you be long . .
today , portugal is ahead by almost € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) . this of more than 10 % of output for greece represents a potential loss . . has made much longer in greece and the recession than it would have been otherwise is therefore export growth lack . if greek exports had increased at the same rate as those of portugal ( or spain ) , the recession would have ended by now . moreover , the lack of export growth much more difficult made fiscal adjustment . .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . unlike the usmca , which was at least premised on the goal of addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento was a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . as part of a legitimate sanctions regime , such as that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 , but being deployed neither to address a trade issue . was a weapon of trade . they were a measure of last resort , as in the case of apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support on how trade sanctions have been used for non-trade reasons is the rare occasions . . once trade measures are used indiscriminately to advance non-trade objectives , the damage to the entire trading system is done – and it can be enormous .
new delhi – according to the united nations ’ population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 . this learned the articles including the usual dire malthusian predictions conferences , seminars , produced a spike . , as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone . after all , the un forecasts that this century the end surpass 10 billion . will increase world population . . however , underlying properties misrepresent , such forecasts . too much population growth not one , but too little is the future we face .
in exchange , the kremlin has pledged to support – but only after the constitution is changed – ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as over its border with russia . the negotiations the government in kyiv and the leaders of the separatist regions held , i are . in theory . the european union is applying pressure on all sides , including russia , where it is holding out the possibility that economic sanctions will be lifted as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s support in the peace effort . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade the rebel governments to cooperate . however , if it does not be considered an outside party , influence an uncooperative ally attempting , the russia in full control of the separatist regions is actually . .
nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 and the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , and led it in a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring regional balance after saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . america after false asser@@ tions manipulating , the war went without its trans-atlantic allies . in 2003 . in doing so , the us embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and helping democracy to take root throughout the arab world . the result has been utter failure : military defeat and a severe degradation of america ’s moral standing .
one of the strangest claims made in the debates about social insurance now roiling the world ’s richest countries is the that government-funded defined-benefit pension programs ( such as america ’s social security system ) are outmoded . these programs were fine , the argument goes , for the industrial economy of the great depression and the post-world war ii generation , but they have become obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economy . different model propose this argument advocates . just as corporations today are much happier supporting workers ’ pensions by contributing to employees ’ private accounts , so governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . would fluctuate with the market rather than resting on a defined-benefit scheme that guarantees a fixed real sum of resources available upon retirement is these accounts the value .
that any country would willingly put itself through what greece has gone through , just to get a free ride from its creditors , does their right mind anyone think ? if there is a moral hazard , it is on the part of the lenders – especially in the private sector – who have been bailed out repeatedly . if europe has allowed these debts to move from the private sector to the public sector – a well-established pattern over the past half-century – it is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in the debt ratio , is largely the fault of the misguided troika programs foisted on it . so it is not debt restructuring , but its absence , that is “ immoral . ”
sense today makes neither scenario . or in the resulting revenue in depressing world prices of their imports , europe and china are not particularly interested . employment considerations are not a major issue , either . while some countries in the eurozone suffer from high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policy ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do better . if europe , china , and other trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs they would simply reduce their own gains from trade without reaping any of the advantages of protectionism .
saving obama ’s honor hardly seems worth that risk . this among the rebels , many people in syria is view . . it the best europe people is view . . it the us most people view is . perhaps it himself , which is why he is playing for time , desperately turning over approval of an attack on syria to the us congress the view of obama is .
we that we formed in childhood , keep the same views into adulthood . tend , but an old man with a long beard watches over us , and most of us retain a pretty literal opinion of the stories about his son told in the bible ’s new testament . it hitchens and attack dawkins atheists is this god . . and , with such a target , it holes and pile on the ridicule poke is very difficult . is not . . leave aside the fact that you can make an even stronger case against godlessness – remember the atrocities of atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century – and consider the assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means that they deny science and reason .
calls for the un to support for the mission is most other . provide the funding , while allowing the au to maintain its leadership role is their preferred model . many western governments , however , refuse to place their forces under au command , owing to its perceived weaknesses , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assuming control . but it difficult to attract sufficient volunteers for such a force , since foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remain predominantly african has found . is the un . at the same time , the complex chain of command envisaged for an au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control , a joint au-un command would exercise operational supervision , and the un would establish the force ’s overall strategic objectives .
new york – there was a remarkable similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s statement after a recent meeting of the ecb governing council and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first testimony to congress : both asserted that their policy decisions would take into account only domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from advanced economies ’ monetary policies , are on their own . this what known for a while is emerging-country authorities . confirms . in 2010 – following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing – brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , advanced economies ’ policies were driving large and volatile capital flows into the major emerging markets , pushing up their exchange rates and damaging their export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as a “ capital tsunami . ”
riyadh – saudi arabia has drawn a lot of criticism lately for its leading role in the war against houthi rebels in yemen . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against the poorest . others have claimed that the fight against the houthis – a zaidi shia-led religious-political movement – is just one element in a broader war on the shia that saudi arabia has supposedly been waging . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding about the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , in the entire arab world . get the zaidis is not out . , saudi sees .
have shown itself adept at assertively promoting its national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics , china but china potential rivals must do more than pursue its own interests , to displace the us and assume the mantle of leadership in asia . what terms of ideas values and does china , most fundamentally ? in the absence of an answer to that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have proven a diplomatic boon for the us in strengthening and expanding american security arrangements in asia . south korea has tightened its military alliance with the us , japan has backed away from a move to get the us to move its marine airbase out of okinawa , and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer to the us .
instead of borrowing to pay for the expensive “ school sets ” students are required to purchase , poles used their 500 + benefits instead . and while women ’s employment rates decreased as women left minimum-wage jobs , salaries , particularly for store clerks , rose sharply . given the dramatic success of the program , other countries are following suit . lithuania the family of a version of less generous introduced . those who care about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families .
different things mean read it . is different people . that can a more difficult to act on , but adopt easier resolution make . its members , the un , in the european union despite countless diplomatic undertakings by the united states , and it thus comes as little surprise that there is still no peace between israelis and palestinians . the affairs state blamed may not be be fair resolution : when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution , which happens when the leaders of the principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace compromise comes only . , peace .
the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline -- which will bypass russia when it is completed -- can not re-define the country 's economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze had sought . neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is needed in the united states or italy : instead , georgia 's long-term economic success will on exports to russian market depend . the pipeline of btc shevardnadze 's emphasis also clearly georgia 's pro-@@ western orientation reflects . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . this should become russia itself to nato moves better . of a burden on bilateral relations on the other hand .
but division can if the will exists , i be overcome . is the libyan intervention lesson . it can still act coherently , even without complete agreement in many areas , europe is not a monolith . division may not be fatal if the outlier is germany or another member state eu . the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome ; of course , none of this means that the international intervention in libya will succeed . however , that europe is finding a way to work when it comes to foreign policy , it does mean what .
16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years behind countries in south asia , and 21 years behind countries lagged in east asia is in ssa countries , life expectancy . in primary , secondary and higher education for combined gross enrolment , ssa countries below the average for developing countries , 11 % below south asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below latin america and the caribbean , 19 % stood . . for this broad-based underdevelopment , what accounts ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was without regard to rights of western-style property , tribal chiefs and relatively abundant .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and growing concerns about food security have sparked anxiety worldwide . the foreboding of a deep sense fills parents . being unable to put food on the table . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher proportion of their income on food , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that years of progress in reducing poverty could be reversed . the seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting rises in food prices – a shift to higher protein diets in many countries , growing populations , greater use of biofuels , and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . malnutrition and hunger will increase in the absence of solutions that alleviate growing pressure on supplies .
and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of organizations that are more obsessed with abiding by the new and burdensome processes than they are with achieving their stated goals . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” such as financial management systems and procurement rules , they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do what they were established to do . a capable state by law , that is responsible . the development is one of the guards as francis fukuyama has pointed out . it involves the creation of a shared sense of “ us , ” an imagined community on whose behalf the state acts . this how societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status is not easy task . .
by 2014 , he had taken over the presidential palace and surrounded himself by a guard meant to evoke ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments according to his – much less his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and immense resources of his office to claim credit for restoring his country ’s national pride , particularly when he is trying to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a kind of protector of turks ’ dignity and sense of themselves as constituting a great power . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . turkey is facing a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; a proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
president clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to americans -- usually most neglectful of africa except when in deep crisis -- the dramatic changes underway on the continent . and at this year ’s world economic forum summit in southern africa , nearly 900 leading businessmen from the u.s. , europe , asia , and africa , met with the new political leadership to map a way forward . two different matters are and results of course intentions . has a road of long ahead , africa . it if a century or more , several decades , most measures behind the advanced economies in economic organization and level of income is .
in the last hundred years , contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) nearly annihilated europe , and the cold war could have done so . the moment you believe " better dead than red " you are in trouble . save your home , family , or country dying may be rational . but dangerous different is martyrdom . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran says : " once man loses his faculty of indifference he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into a god the consequences are incalculable . "
that was failed once and would fail again , the soviet model in a nutshell . if putin is serious about diversifying and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving the lives of his country ’s people , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , especially from the west . he must pursue democratic reforms , institutional regeneration , and the west of diplomatic ties renewed for that . but , if a outdated and antagonistic foreign policy pursue remains putin . , it can undermine the existing one ; russia is in no position to create an alternative international system . this would not be good for anyone at a time when the world is facing so many destabilizing challenges .
will labor unions political resurgence put the wheels of globalization in a wrench , cambridge ? or will fostering great equality and fairness serve the strength of growing ? the evolution of our economic system in 2008 and beyond a major wild card stand is one way or the other , unions . unions ’ rising influence is evident in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise minimum wages for postal employees ; several american presidential candidates ’ open misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concerns about labor standards . along with their political clout , unions ’ intellectual respectability is also experiencing a renaissance .
of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and this shift would occur . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . either side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation , and we have already been for decades at war after all , iran and the . projects asked the coming will define that 12 months . , its commentators as in previous years . that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come , it 's this year 's selection of a theme of common .
plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming international rivers yet ambitious have korea even north , most neighbors embroiled the country in water disputes . . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has spawned two key developments . first , the global hydropower-equipment export market remains by chinese companies . sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western equipment suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to half market control . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
new york – there are many recurring debates in american foreign policy – for example , isolationism versus internationalism , and unilateralism versus multilateralism . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence the external behavior of other states and those who hold that it should be to shape their internal nature . this debate between “ realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and long-standing . during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , bring down the communist system , and replace it with democratic capitalism . we the reach of soviet power instead for a policy of containment , and this to be too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , others thought . .
if britain ’s transitional payments continued near the current level of € 10 billion for the five or six years realistically required to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , they would add up to the same amount . second , a british budget offer would be a powerful tool to create the “ deep and special partnership ” with europe that may claims is her ultimate goal . until last month , may avoided defining this phrase , for fear of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . but to the current level of access , british businesses something close . promised to eu markets in her florence speech . she also would require budget contributions , as in the case of norway and switzerland , any privileged access to eu markets , i recognized . .
it 's impossible to a trade agreement sector-by-sector in two years and even if may can strike an exit deal . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , for example , took seven years to hash out – and was almost scotched by the parliament of belgium ’s wallonia region . there can be no “ phased implementation ” of a trade deal that has not been finalized , so uk-based car companies , financial institutions , and other businesses that export to the eu now should start preparing for the “ cliff edge ” that may wants to avoid . may a brexit of hard has no electoral mandate . . want to stay in the single market , as do all of those who voted for remain is britons who voted for leave the 52 % many .
this is and healthy important . for the first time , there is lively and intelligent debate around this issue , which is at the core of the middle east ’s problems . the closed economies incompatible is open societies . a functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs , and schools that educate the large young population for today ’s inter-connected world , are prerequisites of progress . the issue of israeli-palestinian is obvious reasons for all crucial .
the electorate seemed tired of the persistent confrontation between băsescu and ponta , and , more generally , of the noisy , ugly , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s political scene has become . distinguished himself from the charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanians are accustomed , proving to be a sober , laconic , and pragmatic administrator in as mayor of si@@ bi@@ u his successful years many what to predict his victory over the more talkative ponta made so hard . is part . is this demeanor . he is an evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country ; but is different not only in his political approach , iohannis . . the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted that fact ’s salience for the establishment – though the orthodox leaders who backed ponta have rapidly adjusted their rhetoric to promote tolerance and cooperation .
some of these can be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits – like appreciating things that matter or avoiding dwelling on setbacks – have demonstrated measurable improvements in wellbeing . recently helped for happiness , an organization that i helped found , launch a series of such courses developed by action . by the lama of dalai to improve their happiness may also be performed by whole societies . british prime minister david cameron introduced the measurement of happiness into national statistics , and more recently german chancellor angela merkel launched a program to promote citizen ’s wellbeing . how are governed by countries has a huge impact on happiness .
but the overall pattern of a part of small is israel . more recently , there was america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . does the us even an overarching design for foreign policy need , all of this raises a question of fundamental ? if the outcome is to make its foreign policy less reliable and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding – then it certainly does not . to an order-less world , in which reliability and predictability have given way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle commitments has given . is a new order world .
the services of financial act of 1986 put the pure self-regulation regime in an end . financial interests opposed it vigorously at the time , viewing it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , though they could not have guessed just how thick that wedge would eventually become . it is also difficult to trace back to the 1980 ’s the origins of the credit explosion and the proliferation of exotic and poorly understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis . accelerated dangerously from about 2004 onwards is including the upsurge of global imbalances and the economy of the dramatic financialization , the most dangerous trends . thatcher herself was not an enthusiast for credit , once famously saying , “ i do n’t believe in credit cards . ”
a strike of military would carry potentially dire consequences . alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . seek of rallying the iranian population behind them to provoke it , and welcome an israeli strike . may iranian hardliners . there is a better way to prevent the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” built on a system of incentives that include economic and technical support for countries that join , as well as security guarantees from the united nations security council ’s permanent members . the zone should also enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to remain outside , and – again , supported by the security council ’s permanent members – impose military sanctions on those that try to develop wmds .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war . united nations reports of atrocities , the civilians attacks online images , and accounts of suffering refugees rend our hearts . but what is to be done – and by whom ? recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto the united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni insurgents – at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood eventually will flow again .
now that a raucous regional situation is being joined to a raucous american election season ( where no issue is excluded from the political arena ) , the task of assembling these components will be even more difficult . it israel and its palestinian neighbors had little to do with it is . , if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today . , but it is too early to assess the historical effect of the arab spring . for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have convinced them otherwise . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s countries to remain focused on issues of governance and capacity building , human rights , and how to create economies that respond to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better life . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public ’s rising expectations , and their willingness to get behind a peace process will take a backseat to that struggle .
london – vulnerable communities face the brunt of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . without effective measures of mitigation , according to the world bank , climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . financial institutions should support medium-size little and enterprises to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change . in emerging economies , smes account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp – and these numbers are significantly higher when informal smes are included . it can have cascading effects in the community around it , how an sme the climate resilience own builds gone . .
cutting carbon cheaper is actually . , the cutting recommendation . and we can prevent some through its mitigation to prevent short-term warming the worst because methane is a much shorter-lived gas than co2 . agricultural production accounts create wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining for anthropogenic methane half . professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to $ 30 billion to reduce methane would create benefits – from the reduction in warming – between 1.4 and three times higher . we could also reducing for as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of arctic melting , i considered responsible . , black carbon bigger focus .
it was unlike traditional european powers , which have done so for centuries to others deal has never been found . . china ’s challenge , however , may be more difficult . it must also take into account the american ideal ; it not only live with power with the reality has . numbers of chinese students took over to demand more rights , tiananmen square . , resembling the statue of liberty adopting symbol . in 1989 . today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of “ the american dream . ”
but , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute a power of similar magnitude . therefore , europe could make world such g@@ 3 reality by bolstering its strategic sovereignty . a stronger and more unified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with the us and china in most domains – including by “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives . must address two related concerns is yet european leaders a g3 world prospect tempted . first , it how when most important decisions in the bloc still among member states requires unanimity . , the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration . is unclear . .
this how the administration has dealing with canada and mexico been is after all . trump has temporarily exempted those two countries from the tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement . while the us has , on average , less tariff protection than europe , the difference is minor ( europe 's unweighted customs duty averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for the us ) . both countries specific sectors stronger security maintain relatively open economies . . are a important more obstacle to us-european trade than tariffs is regulatory divergences .
do n’t i somehow still “ own ” it ? do n’t i have rights of control over my own body ? how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their fee for the diagnostic test , which might be fair enough , but also to prevent any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay it a license fee ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most basic element of an individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable . we the argument compelling find must believe in genetic determinism . do n't . .
for this reason , applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization is the international secretariat of in women , the alliance of global against traffic . . there was also opposition from some feminist organizations , which accused amnesty of protecting “ the rights of pimps and johns . ” instead , they argued , we should “ end the demand for paid sex ” – but without explaining how this is to be done . in species reproduce sexually that , sex one of most per@@ va@@ sive desires and the strongest is for obvious reasons . . in this respect for no exception is humans .
they accounted for more than half of global trade flows by 2014 ; demand won a growing share of the soaring trade in goods , and demand from advanced economies , emerging markets . . since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , mainly owing to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . but playing a role is structural changes deeper . simplifying and shortening their supply chains is many companies . no longer , production location and outsourcing decisions depends primarily on labour costs means for the goods of a range .
nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan support in the us for maintaining military bases in afghanistan , as a means of projecting hard power , and the increasingly charged confrontation between the us and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably . in fact , former secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ talk of withdrawal from afghanistan , whether the security situation warrants it or not . ” according to rice , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops will send the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin further . what she does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for us military supplies to afghanistan – could undercut its basing strategy . the us is clearly his interests is in the afghanistan of a continued military presence , i convinced . .
in a sign of what is to come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres after the summit that the eu was pursuing “ a policy of double standards and deceptions . ” according to waszczykowski , poland not only “ must drastically reduce [ its ] level of trust in the eu , ” but “ must also begin to pursue a negative policy , ” by “ blocking other initiatives or playing a very aggressive game . ” in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło had already launched that strategy , by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official record , as if this would render the outcome inconsequential to poland . become all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also if this makes them legally non-binding , you to publish polish constitutional tribunal decisions . is infantile plo@@ ys such . the government has undoubtedly the law rule in poland undermining paralyzed the court . .
this will require massive investments in new technologies and resources , not a “ fight to the finish ” over middle east oil . important energy technologies will include conversion of coal to liquids ( such as gasoline ) , use of tar sands and oil shale , and growth in non-fossil-fuel energy sources . for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and safe and reliable nuclear power , excellent potential is there . our use current energy equals about 10,000 times . is solar radiation . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels – but the possibilities for greatly increased use of inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power are huge .
in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . there was a brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru jackets and maoist revolution , but it was brief . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you go carrying pictures of chairman mao , you ai n’t gon na make it with anyone anyhow . ” asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success . by the end of the century , japan ’s remarkable performance not only made the japanese wealthy , but also enhanced the country ’s soft power .
but , with austerity under fire and eu countries looking to encourage spending , the council should also consider the budget ’s shape , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . the proposed budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including the expansion of high-speed broadband networks into rural areas and the development of transport and energy infrastructure for example . coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale and avoiding a duplication of national spending add considerable value . is possible but the eu . would through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transport links , i benefit directly . , europeans likewise , in order to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries and innovative small and medium-size enterprises – not cut funding for important research programs like horizon 2020 .
in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , china criticism will more muted be . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . a trade danish mission answered china . stopped promoting human rights resolutions directed at china the french soon , and got the message france . a string of lucrative contracts in china rewarded were . is the french .
the norms and standards that how promote health , prevent disease and administer public and private actors shape is the global agenda in this area . it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods emergency-preparedness programs vaccines such for epidemic outbreaks . and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and ensuring everyone ’s right to health . in the sdg framework , gender health , and separate matters are because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes , i intertwined . . whether one smokes tobacco , exercises regularly , or has access to nutritious food , gender can influence .
the impact has , a plurality of women just the presence . for example , us courts with multiple judges studies show that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is on the bench , and significantly more willing when a second woman is added . “ each of us , ” noted sandra day o’connor , the first female member of the us supreme court , who was renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a “ female ” justice , “ brings to our job , whatever it is , our lifetime of experience and our values . ” in other words , women bring a perspective of fresh , heard clearly a critical mass of them is present in any institution only when . consider a woman ’s perspective on conflict .
but the good of greater choosing an action does not absolve us from moral culpability . do become dirty we a dictator help terrorist or , when is our hands . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it is easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds , however , that this getting one ’s hands dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ” in the end , authoritarian leaders adviser can not escape the dilemma .
but because they saw the first gulf war as a domestic security threat in the run-up , they were expelled . were yemenis in 1991 . saudi arabia banned has been reported . , yemeni labor . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy gone awry – its propagation for export of the sunni wahhabi form of islam . with new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen because of saudi financial support , it is small wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . but his destructive policies own is engaged . , yemen .
identified another protein that performed a function of similar , and the honjo . these fundamental studies new and powerful immunotherapies is effective against cancer for the development led have now . . we have learn much but immuno@@ therapy who was on the verge of death to live healthy lives with no detectable traces of the disease for people has been revolutionary . for some patients with some cancers . in its infancy is still , but the revolution of immunotherapy .
it has followed for problems on the macro level this approach elsewhere in the economy , without examining itself , but . silicon valley ’s citizens must start applying their skill at innovation – and their pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves . the only way to evolve is by adapting to new environmental pressures , and now silicon valley – owing in large part to its own behavior – is facing plenty of them . it will be overtaken if it changes . it silicon valley is , if any place has proved that it can innovate . is the good news .
helps to create a positive loop feedback structured establishing . they 're better able to improving their production system invest if their goats will not be stolen , and can sell them at a decent price , farmers are confident . . here , too , the innovation platform is helping . we 've trained farmers by expanding legume crops , the residues of which can be used as goat fodder , we improve their soil . how for starters . farmers began increasing crop density , applying manure , and rotating crops , thereby increasing yields and producing more feed for healthier goats these practices recognizing benefits .
wages before picking up again , she stagnated for 50 years . in the early nineteenth century . have been a situation of extreme may that . but the transition today could prove just as wrenching for lower-skilled workers . governments will need to income and job-transition support to displaced workers providing rethink policies . with fears of increased inequality already growing . five mind imperatives should remain policymakers and businesses .
this means not is largely the mindset of a matter . fortunately , beginning to shift is mindsets . at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential and failing to implement many decisions . they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with leading what were deeply involved of them is a process . , to reinvigorate the au . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations produced by kagame and the pan-african committee of experts that he appointed – through an inclusive consultative process , involving african leaders and other stakeholders – are being implemented .
have buying and selling reserves intervene in the currency market . is not expected for floating exchange rates . in both countries do we think of reserves differently than we think about on the balance sheets national other assets , how more fundamentally ? suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues a bond in new york and uses the dollar proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . at best , market participants will applaud the decision ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not have changed . now suppose one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond and uses the dollars to enlarge one of its modern , highly competitive dairy plants , in order to sell more powdered milk to asia .
for example , the prime minister transforming india into a technology powerhouse and setting the stage for a digital future is a strategy . is implementing in india . the government $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade has invested in an extensive national digital plan that is expected to create 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years . in france . the us falling is behind while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies . the us the only major developed economy without a clear digitization plan is now . despite having led in the 1990s , the internet race . the consequences are already starting to show : according to the 2016 bloomberg innovation index , the us is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having fallen two spots since 2015 .
fortunately , address this problem requires innovative measures . is some countries . in georgia , for example , political parties the electoral lists of each gender at least 30 % that include receive a 30 % supplement from the state budget . political parties if their candidate pool includes less than 30 % of either gender , you lose the state funding of 50 % . in ireland . women political participation face high social and cultural barriers . beyond financing constraints . in particular , greater care obligations , reinforced by public perceptions of a “ woman ’s role , ” severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office .
by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community and those for whom iran ’s international status is better served through a nuclear-weapons program . to aid the latter , rather than the former would appear in that iran has imposed the sanctions of international . if iran were really accountable a democracy of full-fledged to the will of the people , that might be true . but there is scant evidence to suggest that sanctions have done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . moreover , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class and further weaken the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to seek a deal .
one that agreement changes in paris hopes . the energy advances will require the public and private sector both involvement as with the information technology revolution . must a wide array of choices be allocated . because we do not yet know which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy long-term , patient finance must also be available to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ valley of death ” between basic research and commercialization . the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model will be a public-private partnership between governments , research institutions , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship .
but those challenges will not be addressed , and will not unless children everywhere have the skills they need , i be realized . , opportunities . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children – especially girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – a quality education . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budget – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and young people . furthermore , we plan to provide up to 90 % of the funding for a new program to improve the quality of senegal ’s education system between now and 2030 . sen@@ eg@@ al struggles meet the education system strengthening all the costs even so .
the objective must be to boost european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the forefront of global security . they will find avenues to eliminate unnecessary spending and optimize resource use , they excellence and innovation technological and operational propelled forward . . europe ’s defense industry will not be able to make progress without a well-functioning market – open , transparent , and with equal opportunities for all european suppliers . advances in the defense industry lead to significant positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development , which is fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . a critical component in the coordination and proper functioning of europe ’s security and defense policy is the european defense agency .
china , for example , has banned shark-fin soup , a traditional delicacy , at official government dinners and functions – a move that contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales from last december to april . in the southern city of guangzhou , the center of china ’s shark-fin trade , vendors have reported an 82 % decline in sales over the last two years . it should not be difficult to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given that a shark ’s economic value plummets when it is killed . a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . the same shark would be worth about $ 108 dead ; is worth roughly $ 179,000 that frequents the dive sites major in palau .
tudjman ’s excuse was that croatia needed to concentrate power for its struggle with serbian aggression . he used a negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and a russian-style plunder of state properties by his coterie of loyalists is the truth . he electronic media muzzled the press , to accomplish this with a minimum of fuss in order . dealing with milosevic to dictator was simple despite enmity between serbia 's croatia and . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and a division of territory between each other .
the current proposed arrangements would permit the chinese government to veto any candidate that it did not like , prompting criticism that what is on offer is an iranian-style election : “ you can vote for anyone we choose . ” call to increase the openness and fairness by which the chief executive is chosen , without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage for changes could be the kong government hong . according to the basic law , the election committee should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . its membership is chosen by only 7 % of the total hong kong electorate , and its voting procedures seek to prevent the nomination of any candidates who may harbor democratic sympathies . since 1997 , voters % have democratic candidates in legislative council elections voted .
in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument used by today ’s rulers that the first free election would be the last , because islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes . and radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic in order to compete for power , or insist that many people support moderate solutions . , reformers . proven is not yet , this case . january ’s palestinian elections were won by a relatively moderate leader because he was put forward by the ruling fatah movement and islamists boycotted the election . but in the gaza strip local elections soon afterward , use terrorism for radical islamists won seven of the ten municipal councils .
in other sectors , and reducing procurement costs is such . , the industry is implementing approaches . be additional opportunities to improve will scale up continue . it the sector more robust has made . by weeding out the weaker players , but it was hard of emerging technologies . this is a segment of global meeting a growing global need . that the clean-tech industry can expect plenty of sunny days ahead , there 's a little room for doubt .
princeton – the economic gloom that shrouded the world in 2008 has led many to ask whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we the number of in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , i know . . prospered the population the top 1 % but the gap between the rich and poor at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and the middle class stagnated.ampnbsp , widened . to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even automakers is about taxpayer-funded schemes . are now , no wonder .
to enable companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and key performance indicators ; to monitor , prepare , and disclose comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and to integrate sustainable production and consumption practices in company business strategies and models is their main objectives . growing the topic of global awareness recently , mark carney , governor of the bank of england and chairman of the g20 ’s financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , a former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lp , issued an announcement regarding market data on climate . however , it also to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts with the relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations is important . , given the magnitude of the task . and exchange commission the us securities , for one , is already it to respond to investor and business needs regarding esg analyzes options . , discussing these matters . .
small holders need that increase productivity while establishing more sustainable production methods enable them . , new tools in particular . this month ’s g-20 summit and united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . and achieve universal food security climate change address must be linked to the pursuit of thriving . but the outcomes that the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , as well as integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance – can not be achieved without political will . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – global financial markets in 2008 experienced their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . others were bought up on the cheap or survived only after major bailouts ; went bust is major financial institutions . . many economies of emerging-market staggered to the international monetary fund for help ; by more than 50 % , global stock markets fell . ; so lies ahead in 2009 , what ? is the of us , worst behind us . ?
media leaders mutter good news is not news . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to confirm the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” because our species has evolved to fend off danger , we tend to be more sensitive to bad news : a second psychological bias neuroscientists add to this . we react more acutely improving nutrition levels in africa reports to pictures of starving children . and , of course , we remember these pictures of horrible much longer tend .
china ’s government has apparently begun to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change that the internet has brought to china ’s political landscape . nowadays , the government no longer the right information to process it monopolizes . insightful bloggers than do official mouthpieces , get clicks much more . . a “ virtual civil society ” is in the making .
new york – countries often devote public funds to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promote imports – as china is doing with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai – is truly rare . the annual import expo , which will be part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , has attracted thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of large orders from chinese firms , including the state-owned enterprises that the government has tasked with making the expo a success . if the expo succeeds in raising imports , one might expect it to reduce china ’s trade surplus . it ca n't the case be but
london – the historian norman stone , who died in june , always insisted that history students learn foreign languages . language gives access to a people ’s culture , and culture to its history . it sees itself and others , how , his history tells us . knowledge of languages should thus be an essential component of a historian ’s technical equipment . it the future past of international relations understanding is the key . .
is not , but is easy for that scenario . will there actually january be elections ? is the first nagging question : there will be bush echoes of president his words in iyad al@@ law@@ i prime minister . more neutral observers - and indeed , the daily news bulletins about bombings and hostage taking and " insurgents " - cast doubt on that prospect . we can these will not be free and fair elections throughout the entire country , i be sure . and we can must be lower than 50 % .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump won still commands attention , with russia ’s role moving increasingly to center stage . each new revelation in the investigation of russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign brings the vulnerability of the us democratic process into sharper focus . congress that would in the election of the election of to disclose who buys online advertising , facebook , google , and other social media giants , they unveiled legislation . last week . but solve only the most publicized problem will be better corporate citizens . the tougher challenge will be strengthening institutions that are vital to the functioning of democracy – specifically , civics education and local journalism .
but they are often the means clueless if the clear ends . trade protection is fashionable in the us presidential campaign . but they wo n't prevent companies from relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest while import restrictions may alleviate the pain of some manufacturing districts . they will not from technological change , protect workers . . and they will not recreate yesterday ’s development patterns .
a move by army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons might end the conflict , with military commanders getting the credit – and the political capital . but four decades of military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , a majority of whom never really benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented immigrants – two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators have an inglorious record . algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , and western governments do not want the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to restart . getting “ stuck in transition ” is a third possible scenario , with libya remaining in a “ gray zone ” – neither a fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but “ semi-free . ”
but if they be handled in an islamic court , they a case against a muslim were involved . . enjoyed significant advantages for muslim faced in a trial for each other . first , the judges ’ training predisposed them to give the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslim . second which meant that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective , was entirely muslim for the staff of court . third , another non-muslim testify only could could testify against anyone , christians and jews .
some the risk of attack might occur if weapons of mass destruction are deployed is the point of real . , i say . . they have the danger of a sense of subjective based like a cost/benefit analysis . but there is no way of making an objective assessment of fear , and even if it were possible , using cost/benefit analysis to invade the territory of another country would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law . to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law is sense of defense make is the better way . . reciprocity , that if israel had the right to attack the osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb the israeli nuclear facility at dimona , which means . is the principle of first .
becoming less fair as well , with widening gaps between the rich and the poor is most economies . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to adopt sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments asked the un secretary-general to coordinate the preparation of these goals by the year 2015 , in order to ensure a seamless transition from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire that year . a crucial meeting of the general assembly un will for this purpose , take september place . .
today starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide – 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined . an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and create thriving global demand for a product or service – just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara – is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . governments are looking at their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai . it is time for diplomats to do the same . they should turn development assistance into investments , and support and encourage job creators and problem solvers . .
although such politicians often describe themselves as `` rightist , '' their real policies , such as , for , example , those of former slovak prime minister vladimir meciar , are in fact demagogic populist or authoritarian . every european country central the political right the situation is also influenced by experiences that are rooted in history and tradition . set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary is political developments in czecho@@ slovak 's communism during 20 years last . while both the polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization that allowed relatively large semi-official zones of activity outside communist control , czechoslovakia after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . poland into credible democratic-left parties that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right , i transformed myself . , and when the communist collapsed in 1989 regimes .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to the member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ people in the way that americans are willing to do among people in different states . their constitutions to balance their annual operating budgets requires that all , the third difference important is us . . while “ rainy day ” funds that accumulate in boom years are used to deal with temporary revenue shortfalls , the states ’ “ general obligation ” borrowing is limited to capital projects like roads and schools . even a state like california , seen by many as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of its gdp and a general obligation debt of just 4 % of gdp . of the fact that us states can not create money to fill fiscal gaps , these limits on deficits of state-level budget are logical .
i certainly do n’t feel safe as an economics professor ! i have no doubt that sometime later this century , one will be able to buy pocket professors – perhaps with holographic images – as easily as one can buy a pocket kasparov chess computer today . so let ’s go back to india and china . globalization at during its last two decades , a particularly accelerated rate through much of the last century , the rapid pace proceeded . . that technological changes were a much bigger driver in global wage patterns than trade , the evidence of the vast body says .
specialization in each country to obtain more of what they want , which , especially at higher income levels , includes cleaner air and water allows people . . it can benefit environmental goods the other goods just as much when trade down costs brings . so , worse better , trade globalization is for the environment . ? environmental degradation like local sulfur-dioxide air pollution indicators find net effects . is some empirical studies of cross-country data . provided that at the national level , countries have effective governance institutions . , trade and growth the means to clean their air give them . .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” referred to efforts to understand what was taking place at the commanding heights of the soviet union – indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists monitored ( in whatever way possible ) who was up and who was down among the core soviet leadership . great significance was read into who signed an official document , or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square when reviewing military parades . the truth is far more opaque where , efforts to decipher the regime in north korea is all of that . consider what happened on december 17 .
in a desperate , last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over reports ” for a few systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margins of its country ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as did the imf multilateral surveillance exercise or the g-20 peer reviews in the recent past . even if massive spillovers are clearly recognized , it is difficult to see how this exercise would solve the fundamental problem behind the currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . so latin american economies do , what should ? they surely have a right to defend themselves , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and the consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially profitable option if capital flows are indeed temporary ) , imposition of capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing .
it would have depreciated in value , deepening the crisis , if china had let its currency float back then . build reserves , because they are the key frontline defense avoid trade deficits : warned countries . they had seen the consequences of a lack of reserves : east asia 's countries a reason of good followed that advice . . that the imf 's policies would deepen their downturns , east asia 's governments knew . , but they were helpless to resist . the imf had they needed the money .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin served as the model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare is based on massachusetts ’ health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a variety of energy policies – from broad climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy standards – 33 states cut carbon dioxide emissions while expanding their economies . more recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean power plan targets . with eight embracing full legalization , leg@@ ed marijuana in some form . have now . is half of all us states . with the way of a fourth , paid family leave offers three states .
cambridge – “ i want to be a part of it – new york , new york , ” frank sinatra sang of the city that has attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . with their multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals , metropolises like new york city . are rife with opportunities ; in a sense , this to explain is not a hard phenomenon . . but the impact of large cities runs deeper than economic or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally change people ’s lives – and even the people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey west , together with a team of researchers , discovered that several socioeconomic measures – both positive and negative – increase with the size of the local population . the city level of patents per person , crime rate , prevalence of anxiety , and incidence of hiv the wage of average higher .
( it is likely that the eventual winner of the bid will be required to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india , which us companies would not have done . ) as if all this were not enough to decide against america , the clincher might well have been the indian government ’s desire to avoid any further procurement controversy at a time when allegations of corruption beset it from all sides . many felt to defend than one based on political considerations , a decision technical grounds made . are developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in supply , and pleasing a major new ally the unambiguous advantages against this at a time when us nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – have been held up by us insistence on exemptions from supplier liability in the event of an accident , some regard india ’s spurning of us aircraft as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america , too .
as a result , the big transnational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for fiscal bailouts should that supervision and regulation fail ) . european competition rules are requiring divestment and downsizing in case of the banks that required state rescues . institutions such as royal bank of scotland , which for a time in 2009 headed the list of the world ’s largest international banks , are being pruned by the eu ’s directorate general for competition . are being the capital reserves increase pressed , even the stronger banks . the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy worsening cut back on lending . will continue in most cases .
north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out an “ enveloping ” strike on the us territory of guam . trump shot back that the us military is “ locked and loaded . ” and the us has been preparing the north korea striking revised military options as this exchange of rhetorical fire has unfolded . more ominous , a report confidential us intelligence according , north korea has achieved to miniaturize nuclear warheads , and may have as many as 60 bombs in the capability . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken .
all this drawn is two conclusions . we all owe some of our success at least to others , given the public goods provides that society , the first . this for moral reasons for the sustainability of the system , modesty and more restraint calls . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes , which have benefited the most from the solidarity of others , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . but do n’t hold your breath waiting for them to agree .
when sweden ’s did , swedes said no . they understood that unemployment would rise if the country ’s monetary policy were set by a central bank that focused single-mindedly on inflation ( and also that there would be insufficient attention to financial stability ) . because the economic model the disadvantaged workers of power relationships was determined . , the economy would suffer . and , sure enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized those relationships , is the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . after all , it is extremely inconvenient to have in greece a government that is so opposed to the types of policies that have done so much to increase inequality in so many advanced countries , and that is so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth .
durham – this year , islamist politics has faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . but it is too soon to write political islam off as a capable participant – even a leading force – in a pluralist democracy . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first elected president , millions of egyptians took to the street , triggering the military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political incompetence and lack of vision in the face of economic collapse would have been enough to diminish support for his government . but his rejection of pluralism and pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to centralize power in the hands of the brothers and place himself beyond the review of egypt ’s judiciary , proved to be his undoing .
on may 19 , a group of korean scientists published in the magazine science the results of research that for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to match the dna of male and female patients of various ages . they had successfully produced a cloned human embryo using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells , newcastle university british scientists announced . stem cell research a advance of stunning constitute both breakthroughs . the ability to develop into any type of human tissue is pluripotent . is stem cells of embryonic . this for spinal cord injuries and diseases sufferers , in particular .
this includes by firms have to pay beyond which , i lowering the threshold . , he ramping the tra@@ le-@@ permit program . , and eliminating exemptions from permits for firms or industries . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability – the additional revenues could total 2 % of gdp – but also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . finally , china can lower government spending ( in the medium term ) by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . many global companies have to reduce employee layers the number , from top executives to factory workers , thereby reducing costs and boosting efficiency , taken advantage of new technologies in recent decades . china ’s government , by contrast , has retained the same six-layer administrative structure – starting with the central government , and moving down through provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages – since the founding of the people ’s republic 70 years ago .
indeed , the risks of a world without nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number of them – are tremendous . nuclear deterrence – a threat to kill hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is a concept that does not fit into traditional morals . yet it while making people more civilized cautious and , preventing catastrophic wars . has worked . . when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , due to russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . such a move would be unthinkable now that russia has restored its capability .
as the tragedy unfolded , however , scientists gained a greater understanding of the disease . prions seem to defy all conventional wisdom , surviving pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for four hours – treatments that are routinely and reliably used to deactivate all known viruses and bacteria . furthermore , their own decisions lack , prions . by the infected individual , in whom it resides in an innocuous state , pri@@ on gene is provided . the infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of prion replication .
to fully participate in fundraising activities and be active in the local community on the orchestras behalf is now expected europe point for arts to the us performing . fear will happen in europe , the thing of same . have rejected important posts in the us for this reason , feeling that it would interfere with their art is not wanting to as they wave their batons , carry a cup . , some conductors . to have left the chicago symphony orchestra in part because he objected to the fundraising demands that were being made of him is said . , daniel ba@@ ren@@ bo@@ u . but us experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra music directors to participate in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of the job .
we should because the security council - whose backing will be politically if not legally crucial - may never support invasion , i think least others . , but we should not forswear that option . it would that failed to the approval get , uphold the council 's authority . be strange . . to accept an option of mounting a punitive program of air strikes - going well beyond what was done in 1998 - on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the republican guard and other armed-force targets is more likely . is the council . this would severe penalties in the un defiance , and the message hurt and weaken saddam . . his pursuit as an international criminal like slobodan milosevic , and any use , threat or transfer of w@@ md , i declare . could also be the council .
the inspectors returned to tar@@ mi@@ ya soon thereafter . they to produce weapons grade nuclear materials , the huge magnets were exactly what this time . this time , dr. ahmed , the counterpart of iraqi , realized was the game . some of the inspectors he having dined with them on collegial terms during visits to vienna knew well . . that he would lie to them so brazenly on the inspection team was incomprehensible to his friends . .
but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths about the impact of economic growth . growth increases happiness reduces inequality . is first . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would increase sharply and then decline – in the pattern of an inverted “ u ” or a bell – as countries underwent economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes this claim more powerfully than any other case . china , after all , is now one of the world ’s most unequal countries .
thus , pakistan has one step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law was taken . . is always periodically holding free and fair elections , i mean better . supposed is democracy , of course , . it must also mean developing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and to settle their disputes providing institutional citizens . is preparing to hold another at the end of 2012 or in early 2013 , and held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 . , pakistan . he would been the first prime minister to complete his full term , removed gilani was the court of supreme . .
a society-wide dialogue criminalize requirements . and to detain prisoners of conscience remains on the contrary to the cuban government . are marking the twentieth anniversary of the curtain of iron the fall that once divided europe in two this year this anniversary poignant makes , 20 years after this epochal event an iron curtain cuba remains around . of course , the tourists who crowd cuba ’s beaches are not aware of this iron curtain . but , regardless of this ignorance and of its economic interests , the eu should insist on the release of political prisoners and use all international institutions to bring pressure to bear on the cuban government to respect the human and civil rights of cuba ’s people .
brigadier general kyaw hsan , a representative of the military , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that the marchers in the streets were “ bogus monks . ” but we are genuine , and thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrated for peace . some the burma uprising have said . . that to think wants the world . is what the jun@@ ta . . the start of the end of military rule in our country represent , but we believe the protests .
but plato would probably be most amazed by the world ’s moral progress . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibilities of moral reformer . yet , though morality was always at the center of his thinking , we take for granted never , the moral truths . many occurred to him . for example , though plato opposed the enslavement of greeks , he – like every other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) . today , by contrast , even an emphatically non-philosophical person – say , plato ’s “ media escort ” – could easily explain why slavery is wrong : “ a person is a person .
it address local-level social divisions that have in hu@@ bs of violence emerged as a result of the conflict , particularly . is at least important , but . here , local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . rural development , which is the only economic issue addressed in the deal of peace : such efforts must progress in another area be supported . . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterize rural colombia gave rise to the farc in the first place , and in such areas , the conflict was concentrated . . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which the farc has been involved may also be considered an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , a security issue . )
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , especially in europe , is making headlines worldwide . are unemployed is under 25 age of roughly 5.5 million europeans . more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are “ neets ” – not in employment , education , or training . exceeds 25 % in 13 european countries , spain , and amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , ireland , bulgaria , cyprus , latvia , hungary , and slovakia is the rate of youth unemployment . furthermore , remain low for their chances of finding employment , and for more than 12 months have been unemployed . .
foreign producers are accused of `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers . indeed , if the standards of domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps firms within the us majority would be guilty of dumping . to be found guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically is high for american companies standards . was set by the supreme court of yet america 's . the trade negotiators are not even eliminating the standard of double by discussing . so developing countries worry that efforts to introduce `` competition '' within trade negotiations will only make life even more difficult .
this would be cured of the libraization of a case worse for emerging economies . if that happens , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies and helped trigger a period of slow growth and financial instability . facebook is libra will taurus market trigger , i betting . . but libra ’s benefits appear as slippery as a pisces . it will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer , and is dangerous for the project of libra .
to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in developing countries , though the specific dynamics depend on a number of factors no reason is there . for example , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low - or no-growth environment , where the incomes and opportunities of a subset of the population are either stagnant or declining . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with the “ yellow vest ” protests of the last month . the protests of the cause of immediate was a new fuel tax . the added cost was not all that large ( about $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) .
is an immoral strategy that has recorded history endured , to divide a people in order to conquer them . variants of this strategy in thrall , an emperor will have been used . from alexander the great to stalin the cruel . we are now seeing this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over the lands treated as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , however , putin clearly revealed to the world his neo-imperialist designs . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s president has since said that he can work with whatever government ukraine ’s people choose .
in any case , the trump doctrine the ingredient of active is burden-sharing . skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . the us is also the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural savings deficit forcing the rest is . , what she does not acknowledge . the us consistently runs both a fiscal deficit – with total expenditure ( of which defense comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) significantly exceeding its income – and a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of over 3 % of gdp per annum , net us debt to the rest of the world – currently at 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years .
consider , for example , how recent innovations threaten the export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled many countries ’ development in recent decades . developing countries increase their share of global manufacturing activities , some cases kick-starting a broader industrialization process , and creating jobs . were enough . by using abundant and low-cost labor . but , for the firms that took advantage of the opportunity to reduce costs by shifting manufacturing to the developing world , there was always a trade-off : offshore production meant limited ability to respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand . now , technology may offer another option . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” robots , and other non-human tools , companies could move their production sites closer to their final markets .
who watch the game at home , men even wives have to deal with other issues . my former work@@ mate who is a manchester of diehard united fan has a husband . for instance . he one piece of furniture at least breaks his team every season . cheers his favorite teams he kicked are stained with beer . , couches . she since she got married four years ago , at least twice has changed her furniture . .
has any monster not yet as a potential conveyor of revolutionary ideas , i been considered . , in fact ? the idea that a murderous monster may symbolize a protester or an outcast , and therefore deserve sympathy , originated with the french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against the other – ethnic or religious minorities who were demonized and victimized – deleuze and guattari extended the concept of otherness to the vampire . that set the stage for the monsters of the understanding a shift of paradigmatic as the other . increasingly , such protagonists popular culture , cultural criticism focus itself became .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by an increasing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . but the reason disappearance means down shutting discussion . in march , al gore ’s science adviser and prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , proclaimed that when it comes to dealing with global warming , the “ democratic process is n’t working . ” stop building power plants coal-fired , and unwilling to follow his advice . although science has demonstrated that co2 from fossil fuels is heating the planet . hansen argues that , “ the first action that people should take is to use the democratic process .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in terms of the proportion of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . led not only to an increase in female cabinet members , but also to a variety of policies and institutional improvements aimed specifically at women is women mps increase . and , although south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the fall reflects subsequent growth in the proportion of female legislators in other countries . the main reason for the increase in the number of women mps was the introduction of a quota system , according to which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are women . revised to funding to parties that meet the quota provide additional government . , and to reduce the amount for parties that do not was the law of campaign-finance .
for bingham , the law must be accessible and – insofar as possible – intelligible , clear , and predictable . without prohibitive cost or inordinate delay , i be resolved . should should be governed according to law , insulated from the personal discretion of those in power . there should be human rights of fundamental adequate protection together before the law . moreover , be exercised reasonably , for what it was conferred , with independent courts and judicial review of legislation ensuring that government does not exceed the limits of its authority is the purposes . in good faith should be state power . the courts and official adjudicative bodies other should provide fair procedures .
it is the extreme right that has benefited most from the centrists ’ failure . in finland , the heretofore unknown true finn party capitalized on the resentment around eurozone bailouts to finish a close third in april ’s general election . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ party for freedom wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without its support , the minority liberal government would collapse . in france , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , the front of national has been revitalized under marine le pen . nor is the backlash confined to eurozone members .
the eu pays turkey in euros , while seehofer pays orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should . the fourth factor is , of course , german interests of business . german companies make a lot of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . but the german dog wagging is the tail of hungarian . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both exports and imports .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its main trade partners since the eu decided to include in its co2 emission-control scheme all flights to and from its territory , including transcontinental flights . airlines will need to acquire emission permits for their flights ’ co2 emissions . the states of united , and china are outraged . chinese airlines have delayed orders to european aircraft purchase . and major european airlines the manufacturer airbus aircraft the ceos have urged european leaders to step in .
we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage us , when we in government from being outside the euro , london as a financial center looked closely at the risks . . we what was a completely different matter being out of europe were never in any doubt . , but each must be negotiated individually , but can be negotiated . and , for the record , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its negotiation , despite not being a member . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center at the edge of europe , free from europe ’s responsibilities but participating fully in its opportunities .
it also of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries and the persistence of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional disorders the rapid pace in sub-@@ sa@@ har@@ an africa highlighted . inform policy debates and to improve health if it were able to provide more detailed breakdowns of data , spur action . do better . but the g@@ b@@ d . must meet unique needs , their constituents is responsible for policymakers . estimates of local disease burdens will be essential for combating afflictions like ebola , checking the rising toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting the sustainable development goals relating to maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and evaluation , which i head , the resolution of a level of groundbreaking is creating geo@@ spatial maps of disease . .
countries like greece , portugal , and spain will become 20 cheaper % have , and german prices will increase by 20 % according to a study by goldman sachs . to be sure , if germany were to leave the common currency , the road back to competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , since the rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone . spain , would still have to cut its prices by 22-24 % relative to the new eurozone average , for example . the crisis would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union that includes competitive countries from this perspective . to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies would be the only way to avoid it .
one way to strengthen india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to create the marine equivalent of our territorial army , training selected fisherfolk in how to carry out search-and-rescue operations . such training , together with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent seas , would make for a highly effective reserve unit , to be deployed when disaster strikes . another issue that risks being overlooked by the focus on urgent and immediate financial relief is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs . to be sure , immediate relief is vital : ockhi has completely shut down everyday activities in some coastal areas , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fishing communities . it consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to long-term dependence on fishing is time . , but perhaps .
ramallah – the united states should stop pushing for the resumption of the palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best way to achieve peace – a paradox that reflects the huge gap between a peace process and achieving genuine peace . this a call to arms or an appeal for a violent uprising is not . no mistake make . negotiations achieved through must be peace between the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and west of the jordan river . but something must be bad if than in the need for peace is more interested in the process . is one party . .
the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as a project of peace , defense of the west ’s fundamental values , and common economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 , and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historical divisions , now required a redefinition of the european project . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu and laid the foundations for political institutions equal to europe ’s economic power . the treaty of nice ( 2000 ) was result of a rather poor compromise . declarations by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s rotating six-month presidency at the beginning of the year 2007 , are unambiguous : the period of reflection , approved by the european commission in 2005 , has ended .
i impressed by its new shops and buildings , i arrive in moscow . but the era of yeltsin -- another aspect of key -- has fallen silent . that russia 's problems nowadays simply seem less urgent , part is . , but official control is increased by part of the explanation for this . after the government seized influence over the independent television networks , ntv and tv6 , russia 's media became vastly duller . the latest fad to sue newspapers for libel , demanding over $ 1 million is for officials . .
denmark is true , the states of united . it to ask what makes scandinavian welfare economies so successful , and what americans can learn from them is not bad . , but . with work that pays a decent enough wage to sustain healthy and happy lives , scandinavian countries provide their people . is the short answer . one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on the proportion of the population that is doing productive work in high-value jobs . the top seven countries have welfare economies employment oecd country rankings according .
berkeley – on my desk right now are reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s growing inequality crisis and what we can do about it and milton and rose director friedman ’s classic free to choose : a personal statement . than they did in 1979 , the fri@@ ed@@ mans would find of justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism , their task . . considering them together . back then , the friedmans made three powerful factual claims about how the world works – claims that seemed true or maybe true or at least arguably true at the time , but that now seem to be pretty clearly false . because the world , it turned out , disagreed with them about how it works , largely crumbled . rested largely on those claims . is their case for small-government libertarianism . that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability , and caused by the government , not by the unstable private market is macroeconomic distress . , the first claim was .
should now follow the commitment on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 , and set for ending fossil-fuel subsidies for a clear timetable is the g20 . second , the g20 must commit to fighting tax evasion and to unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa . according to the african union ’s high level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion every year from illicit financial outflows . should strengthen tax disclosure requirements , prevent shell companies in the creation , to fight money laundering , and establish public registries of company ownership intensify efforts . is g20 members . the oecd of the g20 have already measures to counter tax-avoidance methods such as base erosion and profit shifting were outlined . .
three of ukraine ’s nuclear power units are currently operating beyond their design lifetime , with nine others set to reach the end of their intended lifetime within the next five years . most immediately , unit two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , meaning that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . make this critical decision without his neighbors and that the reactor poses to ukraine , key information about health risks . will be the snriu . though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility , as a signatory to the espoo convention , to carry out a cross-border environmental-impact assessment ( not to mention missing the opportunity to consider potential alternatives to continuing the reactor ’s operation ) , no such analysis is expected to take place . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear power plants until a cross-border assessment is carried out .
of urban food production , brazil , curitiba has introduced a new model . and has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making , oslo . at the business level , more than 700 companies with a total market capitalization of over $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments , according to the we mean business coalition . and 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to climate 100 + , a five-year initiative to engage with the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve governance on climate change , curb emissions , and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures . as a result , global bond green issue could reach $ 300 billion this year .
but this stability and growth restoring was no recipe . . to restoring a strong growth path succeed , east asia must deliver justice for more than individual human rights violations . need civil and political as well as and economic social - all human rights as the proponents of asian values argued if not , advocates of and human rights democracy will a backlash face . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto 's new order .
by contrast , who their incomes save a large percentage . , the virtuous chinese were for their failure to understand that their duty to humanity was to spend castigated by western confirmed . . uncertainty as risk redefinition was the point of key . this was the main achievement of mathematical economics . hedging against risk is a purely technical question , whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been a moral issue . the main uncertainty in life – the destination of one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morality .
having ruled out a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . but this approach is inefficient and unstable . as a result , italy – and the european union – is headed toward the kind of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce a parliamentary majority forced another election the following month . the crisis in cyprus – which threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus out of the eurozone – could make the situation even more difficult to manage . malaise beginning with institutional , italy has a lot in common .
for example , in the 1980s , the us stepped with foreign car , microchip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers into such agreements . since the world trade organization been forbidden . , some conditions imposed . to korea a requirement in a trade deal that would have granted it a minimum market share of us pushed , but just a few years ago . trump to develop them off these tools is likely to dust . . if trump wants to prevent production from moving overseas and encourage investment from abroad , we may soon see companies pushed to agree “ voluntarily ” to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
and us per capita emissions are any large country other higher than . the accord of paris does not the us has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order on the contrary , victimize us . . the us accounted for global greenhouse-gas emissions an astounding 26.6 % from 1850 to 2013 data from the world resources institute according . america ’s population today is just 4.4 % of the world ’s population . it how several times than the world average , that owes the world climate justice , not the other way around have always been per capita emissions . is america . in short .
and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise or fall by double digits without triggering a wider economic crash – at least so far . for example , china ’s gdp growth was unaffected ( in fact , the economy was growing at nearly 10 % ) when the stock market lost half of its value between 2001 and 2005 – or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to fall dramatically again after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market has been a global laggard – that is , until the past year , when it became the best performing in the world , rising by more than 150 % . that followed the largest two-day rise since 2008 , the plunge of 8.5 % came into the market . : and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues . that rise had been preceded by a loss of nearly one-third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early july .
the conversation again turned to macron . i tried to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( at the same time ) , which tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead be one of the most visible traces of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an ambiguous choice , “ at the same time ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and trembling before the unsolvable and terrifying mystery of the double nature – physical and spiritual , mortal and resurrected – of the tormented body of christ . but we arrive in america at the question of anti-semitism , very soon . it 's in that horde of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederates who descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to break some black and jewish heads , i be found . on the one hand .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over the intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . that nineteenth-century americans with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric , invented political vo . , john judis writers claim . argentines , who gave the world über-populist juan domingo perón , or brazilians , who brought us getúlio vargas , might beg to differ . economic populism the longest and best practitioners have not been disagreement . can there . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others , engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed inflation to rise , and eventually suffered currency crises .
what is remarkable is that it has lasted so long . ” it secretary of defense robert gates that was to israelis , especially shocking . was a recent statement to congress . , but . he expressed understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons because , as he said , the iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers such as pakistan , india , russia , and israel . to fight against this emerging new american doctrine that equates it with iran , or even with india and pakistan for that matter is bound by israel . the israelis will argue political contexts matter .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared opposition leader alassane ouattara the winner of the country ’s november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote . % gained 4@@ 9 is laurent g@@ bag@@ bo , the incumbent . the united states , european union , canada , and united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara and called on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . one day after the result was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo ’s close ally paul yao n’dre , annulled the results from seven departments in the north , declaring gbagbo the winner of the election with 51 % of the vote . many ivorians flabbergasted left reached 24 hours less in the decision .
in contrast to last year , when the rush home for the lunar new year celebration was hampered by freak storms , this year millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural homes . staying there , because hit china hard , their jobs costing them is the global economic downturn . will be many . littered with a host of extremely sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than 2008 . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest in 1959 that led to the exile of the dalai lama and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has taken many pro-active measures , even adopting a “ serf liberation day , ” to defend its record in tibet of the past 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama ’s representatives .
dealing with the deficit has required difficult decisions – from reforming the welfare system and increasing the state pension age to controlling public-sector pay . writing checks to itself richer , i make myself . , but i 've always believed the country . we need to make responsible choices to ensure that we can live within our means – and that is what i am determined to deliver . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition to secure the economy for the long term – but it is not sufficient . open the economy to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india tear down trade barriers requires taking bold steps . is also success .
indeed , the boom of recent in some parts of the shows of developing exactly that . second , while pushing the technological frontier is the crucial element of growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries is transforming production and export structures , particularly by shifting resources to activities with higher levels of productivity . the capacity to by generating new activities , strengthening economic linkages within the country , and creating new domestic technological capabilities , diversify domestic production . is achieving the key . is critical for successful diversification , building and modern industrial service sectors . is a proven recipe for failure , as has been demonstrated by the sad experiences of most developing countries in recent decades , in informal service activities , and concentration of de-industrialization of growth .
today , few know where the term “ globalization ” originated . gives as the usage of current earliest reference an academic article from 1972 is the oxford english dictionary . but in a sense of rather different , used earlier . was the word . it was a diplomatic term conveying the linkage between disparate policy areas ( for example , in negotiating simultaneously on financial and security matters ) . in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism , the term may be found . ignores non-@@ english origin . is the oed etymology .
without his determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skilful diplomacy , iraq 's military programmes would not now be exposed to a scrutiny more intense than that applied to any other would-be proliferator in the world today . to achieving this extraordinary feat , the war of the credible threat was essential . but a war launching implementing these threats . can make sense precisely because it is so extraordinary . would be the effectiveness of the inspections , scarcely a justification for military reprisals a confirmation if in the course of inspections iraq were exposed as having lied and cheated the best " serious consequences " of which the un security council has warned should iraq fail to comply with its obligations would be an even more intense effort to destroy its illicit weapons through continuous inspections of the country 's offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders .
though their vision of “ information security ” could legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship , and is therefore unacceptable to democratic governments , it may be possible to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . one could start with cyber crime and cyber terrorism , but would be all intrusions . agreeing to cooperate on forensics and controls limiting damage have interest . would be major states . of course , historical analogies are imperfect . because can exploit it much more easily is non-governmental actors . is very different from nuclear technology . , cyber technology .
most of the debt is owed within the state system – for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks – and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize banks , financing the operation with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , to repay old debts forever extending new loans . , existing debt could be the banks . of course , that would investment produce wasting . is already awash and with huge overcapacity in heavy industry , with apartment blocks in third-tier cities which will never be occupied . is and with the planning system with banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable businesses . booms of nineteenth-century railway in britain and america even as they spurred economic transformation , she created huge overcapacity and investor losses . : but , as some chinese policymakers respond , all growth processes involve waste .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that abundant natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacities , resource exhaustion will leave the country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians the most possible from the country ’s resources , and are rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that that is the case . transparency is crucial to this process , which is why the government ’s strong support of press freedom is so important . as president hage geingob told us , the press often says things that he does n’t like .
it around the levant , include other neighbors . be extended . could not be unimaginable . . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . naturally , much will how the current turmoil surrounding the package of bailout is he fares . depend . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this will naturally be his top priority . nevertheless , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence – and into anastasiades ’s history – provides grounds for optimism .
called upon to the dynamic public face of europe be is the commission head . the commission ’s own internal culture of cautiousness and red tape is a constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to talk about . it is not a structure that is conducive to political coups de theâtre , and most of the commission ’s work is the relentless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . but the bottom line is that at a time when everyone is asking , “ what is europe doing ? ” , the commission ’s responses have seemed inadequate . there that commission presidents must be drawn from the ranks of past or current prime ministers , it is un@@ written rule . for reasons that are now obscure .
but it is not obvious that the uk provides such security , especially now that it is on a path to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . independence would allow scotland to develop policies that are more in line with other successful small economies – not least by retaining eu membership . would have an opportunity to to it , that are suited . , develop policies . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit an outsized opinion of itself leave the eu chose , britain . to like that of switzerland or norway , follow a little country model . , have but soon .
second , with china such an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has a disproportionate impact on projections of global corporate revenues . and , as china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and shadow-banking system attract increased attention , many companies are becoming anxious . third , while companies recognize that innovation is a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they are also humbled by its increasingly winner-take-all nature . successful innovation today is a lot less about financing and much more about finding the “ killer app . ” as a result , many companies , less convinced that “ normal ” innovation yields big payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did before .
stockholm – it has been one year since the failed coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future still abound . last year ’s attempted coup was nothing if not dramatic . 249 people lost their lives , and the turkish parliament bombed mu@@ tin@@ ous fighters f-16 . but the putschists failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters and sealed the coup ’s fate . turkey would probably have fallen into a devastating and violent civil war , the consequences of which would have extended well beyond its borders if been stymied within the first 48 hours was the coup .
seoul – once again , tension is rising across asia over north korea ’s missile program . unlike its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s government this time notified international agencies in advance that it will launch a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and 8 . but what happens whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , the world question is not . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as a “ provocative act ” and a violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducted a nuclear weapons test . but what the missile launch military implications is a cool@@ -@@ headed evaluation . is needed .
and it has just held the first round of a presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome . it has been a decade since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which established a more reliable framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states was partly a reaction to the invasion of russian of georgia 's previous summer . is worth this initiative . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree to recognize those occupied territories or legitimize its invasion .
is not enough for a policy of baby steps without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to dealing with crises , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to gain in strength and jeopardize the entire project of peaceful integration on the basis of the rule of law . the brexit referendum will for as a whole , the eu both for the uk , point the way . . it will be followed either by sighs of relief ( as i hope ) or a cataclysm that rocks the eu to its core and brings disaster to the uk . but , however the british decide , europe ’s numerous crises need to be addressed .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can return to its core business of managing crises . christine lagarde , a competent and well-regarded technocrat , will have three challenges of important her hands full . the first , and probably easiest , challenge is to restore the imf ’s public image . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems highly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unlimited expense accounts , dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , more pro@@ sa@@ ic is , the truth .
the increase in the monetary base , however , is only temporary ; when the bonds are redeemed , it reverts to its original level . this eventual need to reduce the monetary base is an implicit claim on a central bank ’s assets ; thus , the increase is rightly considered a liability on its balance sheet . however , the central bank has never the increase in monetary base reverse has under a fiscal stimulus financed by helicopter money . because the holders of the distributed funds have no claim on the central bank , the increase in the monetary base should not be viewed as a liability , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth . it is a gift ; in other words , helicopter money is not a loan of interest-free to the government .
in revenge , her party -- the liberal front -- threw its support to ciro gomes , and her party accused serra 's of orchestrating the attack . lu@@ la 43 % in mid-@@ may reaching , re@@ discovered the supreme in the polls . with sarney . then , in early july , within who had % declined , striking distance of lu@@ la , 28 % gomes increased . . to the excellent performance of his second wife , popular actress patricia pillar , , the television time available to in late his three-party labor alliance was used by gomes . during the country 's risk of the risk change the face of the election , short credits of nigeria 's topped for international trade .
claremont , california – although the rapid escalation of violence in hong kong seems terrifying enough , things may be about to get much worse . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the communist party of china ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping is planning to tighten his grip on the former british colony at any cost . he should to rack up a bill of formidable , prepare . following iran 's second most powerful leader the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . to us , growing challenges interests elsewhere in the world a time would occur and this shift .
partly reflect enduring weaknesses in governance , despite important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional changes that shifted powers from the monarch to the parliament , and legal reforms such as aligning legislation with european and international standards on human rights , as well as progress on family law and gender equality is these shortcomings . moreover , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria and the thorny issue of the western sahara – have hampered integration in the maghreb , an absolute necessity for unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it behind its own borders , religious education for responsible has been established by counter-@@ wall . . it has become a global green-energy leader , having committed in 2015 to increase its share of renewable electricity generation to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets .
to use eurobonds as the mechanism for eliminating the big sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the 60 % - of-gdp margin where countries will have the most trouble resisting temptation . after all , there is little reason to believe that the fiscal compact or proposed “ debt brakes ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . rules need a mechanism of enforcement . misplaced hope that the enforcement problem can be solved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions might be based on a misunderstanding of the us system . to be sure , the us federal government has never bailed out a state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional provisions that limit deficit spending .
but since the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all world trade organization member states have had to recognize one another ’s pharmaceutical patents . if patented drugs manufacturing generic versions would a license require , such licenses are rarely provided for indian drug makers . that major pharmaceutical companies routinely get away with in the us and europe , i had some safeguards to prevent the kind of excesses . india still . , however , following amendments to the indian patents act . for example , india abides by a stricter definition of what constitutes an invention , which prevents “ evergreening ” : the process of extending the life of a patent by taking out secondary patents for marginal improvements to the original drug . according to section 3 ( d ) of the indian patents act , “ the mere discovery of a new form … property or … use for a known substance or of the mere use of a known process ” is not eligible for a patent unless it “ results in a new product or employs at least one new reactant . ”
the foreign actors who criticize brazil ’s exploitation of the rainforest – from european governments to pope francis – are promoting biodiversity only so that they can exploit it in the future . with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like a virgin that every foreign pervert wants . ” he merely wants to be among those exploiting it ; but bolsonaro does not to the amazon cha@@ ste keep , want . his promotion of the rainforest ’s development and attacks on environmental regulation have led , for example , to the expansion of agribusiness , particularly cattle ranching , and illegal logging . according to data from brazil ’s national institute for space research , deforestation of brazil ’s portion of the amazon increased in june by 88 % year on year .
subject the north korean people to privations of every kind in order to remain in power seems perfectly willing . , kim . there are iran 's north korea and notable differences of course . the most obvious is that iran ’s nuclear program did not take off , whereas north korea – which , unlike iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads , and seems to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the us mainland . global risks would entail north korea all-out military conflict in short . begun to realize that does not preclude sitting north korea increasing pressure may be trump .
the third argument against putting anti-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . but this reflects a thorough misunderstanding of the issue . a chapter well-@@ designed currency in the tpp would not monetary independence impede us . by which includes the central buying bank , altering short-term interest rates . , conventional monetary policy shall apply . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market – buying and selling foreign currency – is involved .
so it ’s funny to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether experimental physics , mathematics , or cosmology , is useless . but the joke would n’t work if there were not at the same time another widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge has a value independent of any practical use . after all , it would not be funny if a charity dedicated to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; practical value in that case would be paramount , because it would be the only real reason for the charity to exist . so , even though potential usefulness is the reason why governments devote so much money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than that . have a quite different , higher aim in science : on this view .
the position of the united states has n’t helped , either . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress for $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat . intervened , as republican lawmakers , leading a congressional hearing on the zika outbreak , made the funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries , but discontinuation politics . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with too much responsibility while giving them too little power – are not lost on everyone . to put human rights at the center of the response to the zika outbreak emphasized the need . , the united nations refugee agency and a organization world health .
so much , worrying about official corruption could stop as hoped , consolidated democracies . and start-up loans from europe would make it much easier to seek one ’s fortune back home . to be communicated both to the european public and to the people of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries needs approach such . it would supply it with oil and gas and guard its borders against migrants relies on the wall . is whereby europe . , reverse the pattern . . at long last , these countries ’ demographic wealth would be used to meet their development needs .
europe and japan will face severe problems when their demographic pyramids tilt towards the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage they have relative to the us today : of advantageous what 's , course . today may be problematic tomorrow . but this is n't what ails their economies now . edmund phelps of columbia university says that these slow-growing countries lack " dynamism , " which he defines as a combination of entrepreneurial spirit and the financial institutions to channel it . both spirit and the necessary financial institutions must be present to enable " creative destruction " - the force joseph schumpeter argued sixty years was the engine of capitalist prosperity - to be unleashed . is this slow-growing countries accurate description , but ?
next succeeds in argentina one is underway for a random and redistribution effort ever more corrupt , and institutions are torn down . brazil may soon the same course follow ; venezuela and peru hardly look better . serves as a warning that much of the latin american public to reject traditional governments is prepared . is who lead opinion polls in the run-up to brazil 's presidential election , the popularity of lula ignacia da silva and his team . . are so far outside and policy thought the mainstream that capital has already begun fleeing -- even though the election is months away is lula and his party .
by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person per year , less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt led permanently lit . the iea also estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro , even with a carbon tax . few in the rich world would switch to renewables without heavy subsidies , and certainly no one would cut off their connection to the mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and at night ( another form of subsidy ) . yet western activists seem to believe that the world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied with inadequate and irregular electricity supplies . in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy consumption will increase by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population almost doubling , less energy per person will be available .
in 2011 and early 2012 , there was much talk of a crash in china ’s housing market , and a chain-reaction of defaults in underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms . the talk collapse of the shadow banking system , which consists mainly of wealth-management firms and trust companies as danger of a resurgent housing bubble has changed . in 2013 . according to market sources , total assets managed by the shadow banking system have risen exponentially since 2009 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability , upon which the returns of the shadow banking system ’s asset pools are based , is low and falling . the financial products provided by the shadow banking system come from will be the high returns . , where ?
european industry similar problems is made him . . is also a major source of tax revenue , and with a large proportion of its fuel supplies the eu . . is the refining and petrochemical sector . the downstream sector , together with fuels distribution , contributes a total of around € 240 billion annually to treasury coffers . this is an important industry that should not suffer from overregulation by any reckoning . but the abundance of eu and national energy regulations are inflated gas prices the threat faces from the world .
that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed back against trump , the answer is , it seems , . yet draining the poison from europe will require a lot more than scolding the us and praying for trump ’s early departure . in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches to issues like immigration are threatening to create systemic problems that will endure long after trump has returned to a life of golf courses and bankruptcy courts . forgiven for politely sending the uk on its way , so that they can focus their attention on threats to their long-term cohesion and fundamental values is sensible leaders of european . has always on being a community of values that protects minorities and has welcomed the poor and downtrodden , i prided myself . is the eu .
acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing – and the current political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but it means improvement in and politics both the possibility recognizing fallibility . and and balances checks new systems must be designed so political decision-making , if the world is too complex and unpredictable for either markets or governments to achieve social objectives . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then the economic theories of the pre-crisis period – rational expectations , efficient markets , and the neutrality of money – must be revised . moreover , politicians must on market fundamentalist assumptions , there was the super-structure of ideological . reconsider much . .
similarly , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to reduce the incentives , created by almost all countries ’ tax regimes , for corporate leverage . governments must also work to reduce existing debt – and the deficient global demand to which it contributes . it grow their way out of debt is not feasible for the very leveraged most governments . . nor can austerity alone suffice , as it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments – 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case – that citizens would likely resist them , as the greeks have done . the debt restructuring including , a broader range of tools . would be more effective approach .
and access to a service to personal data , more tangible is others . are bad for and incentive structures for third , pay , inequitable much has been paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis the bonuses of extraordinary written . but no hoods of robin is silicon valley ceos . that the world will be better when they sell their business to the highest bidder , i intoxicated by the idea . is many . , but tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors they want to change the world .
necessary principle is for europe that . moreover , he has never wavered on the critical questions of legal and practical equality for women or about expressing his dismay at the growing number of niqabs and hijabs now seen on london ’s streets – which prevent people , he notes , from speaking face to face . likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has earned him a fatwa for apostasy from the fearsome head imam of a bradford mosque . that no less could be expected from a labour leader with a bright future in the country of churchill , one could say . that khan has not yielded in these matters to the facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel , but it must be admitted .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second payment services directive ( psd2 ) have been crucial in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have for some time been running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants by helping them to structure themselves to comply with standards . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” requires banks to offer their customer data to non-bank providers of payment and account information services . with an integrated view of their finances , and offer add-on services , aggregators can present the customer . maybe the financial-stability risks of open banking assess time before the directive was passed , she was in the consultation period . . even now , the work of fsb the list of contribu@@ tors shows that the european commission , and the key regulators in europe and north america , were not involved .
some ideas are worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in a way that emphasizes secondary issues – say , the availability of raw materials – and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that may lie elsewhere . a nordic country the population of small endowed with many trees consider finland . . a economist of classical would the country should export wood , which finland has done given this , i argue . . by contrast , a traditional development economist would argue that it should not export wood ; instead , it should add value by transforming the wood into paper or furniture – something that finland also does . but all wood-related products represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports .
we get by 2050 , not 500 grams per kilowatt-hour to around 50 grams per kilowatt-hour need . we that the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century , especially given . , zero-emission vehicles need . carbon grid charged on zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles , but fuel-efficient vehicles requires not natural gas . . this more profound transformation , unlike the low-hanging fruit eyed today by many politicians , offers the only path to climate safety ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . we risk putting ourselves into a trap of high-carbon , or more gas-burning vehicles efficient .
instead of change becoming agents , they often prevent change . ( indeed , the big economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by preventing start-up competitors from challenging them . ) to achieve with the support , rather than the obstruction , of their conglomerates is much worse . requires the transformation of productive . but ensuring such support requires policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates toward export industries that can grow beyond the limits of the domestic market – industries in which competition will encourage the discipline that they lack as a result of dominating local markets . takes the acceptance of society the government support to succeed , conglomerates
working groups might be created to try to create a common narrative . the negotiations would also need to cover contemporary issues , including a tour d’horizon of current hotspots . in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and especially syria is iran . , what ? define its interests in these countries does that . , how ? does it actually as shia arabs protector assert see itself ?
domestically , china will be the first country that , due to its sheer size and required gdp growth , is forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . otherwise , china would quickly reach its “ limits to growth , ” with disastrous ecological and , as a result , political consequences . it will be decisive in determining not only what we produce and consume , but how since the future the most important market will be china . . consider the transition from electric transport traditional car . this will be decided in china , not in the west despite the contrary european illusions .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must express the clear intention of reducing sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels , which are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rates recently , on the grounds that spain borrowed at nearly the same rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement , amazingly , ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation – thus confusing real and nominal rates – and more rapid gdp growth . for countries that are following agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , and announce how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue . a sporadic program without such announced objectives could even be counterproductive , as private investors might well demand even higher returns because the growing ecb share of the debt would be considered senior , augmenting their risk , and to work is unlikely . . .
but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , though friedman ’s general argument – that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion – remains very influential . inflation targeting was best known as a rule that instructed central banks to set – and try their best to attain – a target range for the annual rate of change of the consumer price index ( cpi ) . close cousins included targeting the price level instead of the inflation rate , and targeting core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . that it was fine to put some weight on real gdp growth in the short run , so long as there was a clear longer-term target for cpi inflation , who held . , inflation were also been reported . , there . that if the definition of it were stretched too far , it would lose its meaning , but some felt .
now , owing to inadequate final demand , which has led to excess capacity , and to uncertainty about future demand , cutting jobs . is the advanced economies firms . but because it reduces labor income , weakens last demand . , cutting jobs . because a firm ’s labor costs are someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for one firm is destructive in the aggregate . the result is that free markets do n’t generate enough final demand . for example , reduced the share of labor income in gdp has sharply . slashing labor costs .
blockbuster video , borders books , compusa , circuit city , payless , or virgin megastores bankruptcy left unemployed . , nor do import rates . over the past year grew by 31 % . , at amazon employment . but in california texas , washington from that of those it is replacing is very different . , those jobs geography . ta@@ a is not the ailment kind a solution as with the geographic relocation of us manufacturing jobs . not in the industries directly affected by outside competition , but in the surrounding economy is many of lost the jobs . , and after all , whereas taa targets individuals directly impacted by foreign competition
yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of the sort putin defeated at home , and yanukovych accused yushchenko of having sold ukrainian companies to russian corporations . president putin ’s behavior is probably best explained by his dislike for democracy . in addition , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can only turn to russia , as is the case of president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . after this spectacular russian failure , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic and faces the threat of a real democracy in its neighbor spreading to russia . changes have thrown the russians of the complex of little-brother overboard for the first time .
can have serious economy-wide pitfalls , which must navigated carefully be of course for example , as technology-driven productivity gains reduce the number of workers needed on farms , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain and to manage migration to cities become even more essential . with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies . fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , who are largely uninterested in the backbreaking work of subsistence farming , is well suited to fill the higher value-added jobs that emerge in the agricultural sector and beyond . including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive water use , and water pollution , environmental damage . is of agricultural development , another potential pitfall . .
have not will be almost certainly . for many of the agreement ’s critics , particularly those in the environmental movement , these compromises made the lima deal an excessively “ bottom-up ” agreement . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” rules imposed by the agreement . this will make it persuade countries to cut emissions further when it becomes clear that their collective efforts are not enough , and that it may even allow some countries to use irregular accounting methods harder worry . is such critics . but this overlooks the lima agreement ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the longstanding division of the world into only two kinds of countries , developed and developing .
is probably how she continues to lead various opinion polls is the reason of main . is her refusal to strike out on her own . use the incumbent government and a majority of voters , i show . , however , recent polls . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the main backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping broad hints that he might become a presidential candidate . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all of the country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , attracting young people as well . ahn ’s most obvious merits are his personal history of overcoming severe challenges and his modest demeanor .
dhaka – we humans do not only share the planet with a range of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we also depend on them for our survival . can we the value of economic of the natural world determine ? will balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative , some people . that preventing human death and suffering , while providing food , water , and an education to all , is vital , but they would also agree . that there are simply not enough resources to do everything is the reality .
in developing countries emerging markets many , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transport . and , elsewhere in the region – the small pacific islands in particular – vulnerability to the effects of climate change is increasing . on several fronts , the calls of shifting landscape for bold action . while the response will certainly need to be tailored to each country ’s specific circumstances , some recommendations could be helpful for most countries : · because inflation remains low across most of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case downside risks materialize .
it wishes to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat – a stance that places it at odds with india . if the brics countries are to jell as a pressure group in international relations , they must agree on what they believe to be attainable political and economic objectives . for example , they are generally united in their frustration with – but not in their proposed response to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . the most important bilateral relationship the united states is , has every brics country . the brics concept represents , above all , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural .
and , third , there was the “ deconstructionism ” of the post-nietzscheans . by historicizing the “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting truth “ in quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating the sign from its referent ( louis althusser ) , and miring the obvious in a miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) or tying it up in borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , they probably caused us to lose contact with the simple , robust , and irrefutable aspects of the truth . i then focused on the responsibility of the internet and gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following sequence of events : first , an almost infinite amount of speech digital democracy is set free . . convictions , his or her personal opinions becomes a crowd . , the web .
solna , sweden – elite sports and doping have long been deeply interlinked . but the damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro , brought it to the forefront of public consciousness . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice – and save elite sports . in sports with an elite level requires hard work , dedication , and focus a amount of tremendous . great personal and financial rewards may enjoy those who do . , but succeed by definition .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) could soon be a thing of the past . but the defeat of isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate wo n’t bring peace to the middle east , or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than the previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire at the end of world war i. because the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or to create anything like a resilient framework for peace , the continuation of the pattern of violent seems certain . instead , it the nineteenth and twentieth centuries remains trapped . .
even rapid response is more effective if key networks and systems – particularly the electricity grid – are resilient . why do we tend to underinvest in the resilience of our economies ’ key systems ? in normal time with higher investment in cost-benefit calculations , redundancy looks like waste . is one argument . that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events , it looks bad for numerous estimates of expert . that which is behavioral psychological and in character , a second and more plausible explanation leads .
meanwhile , developing countries the opposite direction are moving . . in october , the people ’s bank of china , responding to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively – the first increases since 2007 . the impact on chinese growth triggered a sell-off of fearful in the markets in the west . right before the fed acted , the reserve bank of india raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and china ’s central bank now indicates that it might raise interest rates further . to 11 % , i remain close . in brazil , interest rates .
larger firms are more capable of pooling resources for research and development , which is the key to china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder . industries more fragmented also lobby better . traditionally , contract manufacturers in china are scattered and fiercely competitive . they international regulations domestic have little if any say . . for example , producers in jiangsu were fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets adapt constantly forced .
that eliminated one-way bets for speculators and acted as an economic shock absorber , be more flexible exchange rate would be the country , no question . but the literature on “ exit strategies ” – on how to replace a currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate – makes clear that the moment when china could have navigated this transition smoothly has now passed . only that the more flexible exchange rate can appreciate as well as weaken , i encouraging faith . is confidence in the economy . can be completed by countries . this is no longer true today to have been china true once . this puts chinese policymakers in the position of the irish tourist who asks for directions to dublin and is told , “ well , sir , if i were you , i would n’t start from here . ”
the legislation was not intended to ban derivatives , but only to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized by taxpayers ( remember the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) , which are not a natural or inevitable byproduct of lending . there are many ways of curbing big banks ’ excesses . a strong version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force government-insured banks to return to their core mission of lending ) might work . but the us government would be leave things as they are is remiss . . the senate bill ’s provision on derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing these restrictions , have clearly lined up on the side of big banks .
if finalized , the program of imf could and other donors in the world bank trigger further aid . it is still in need of a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth , but would begin to address some of its financing problems if the aid arrives . egypt ’s economy is facing continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector in reviving the country ’s economy . has cooled bilateral relations and threatens the $ 1.3 billion in military assistance that egypt receives annually from the united states , unfortunately , the latest political incident involving american ngos the activities of democracy-promoting .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with the advent of free food ) , or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . other sharp and creative minds means direct contact . , being work physically present . and the benefits of human contact and interaction are why salespeople still call on customers instead of using skype , and why meetup ( which supports organizers of face-to-face meetings ; i am on the company ’s board ) changes lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do . of course , those who prefer to work at home cite not just the cost and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – too much culture , perhaps – and a steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . interestingly , i heard this point at a wpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a couple of hundred people had flown thousands of miles to meet face to face to share ideas and strengthen working relationships .
that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world , and the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . we 've been in an un@@ controlled military escal@@ ation an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months , they offer their best asked his commentators . as in previous years . it will weigh on the present for many years to come , what happens in 2020 is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection .
are assuming greater weight in such decisions is talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and market speed quality . reduce the need to ship goods across long distances could be further . in the future of near if trade in global goods has indeed peaked relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops . retreat is not , but globalization itself . while global goods trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , flows of digital information have surged : cross-border bandwidth use has grown 45-fold over the past decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation around the world .
as xi put it at davos in 2017 , china is committed “ to growing an open global economy . ” trading system global will not want his circle and xi . but in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from globalization as we know it . china relies on public rounds and more on bilateral and regional trade agreements compared to the post-world war standard . china signed with the association of southeast asian nations on comprehensive economic cooperation in 2002 .
part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas the benefits of foreign investment , for example , take years to become apparent . have time horizons that extend beyond the next election , few ; all democracies politicians think in the short term . with his 20-year record of accomplishment to show the public , singh has a better case than most to be trusted by voters when he says that he is acting in their long-term interest . within singh ’s congress party , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . the congress can rightly for the most far-reaching such program , the mahatma gandhi national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor rural family 100 days per year of paid employment , i take credit . .
banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to the new capital requirements and restore their balance sheets to financial health , which implies that they will use the ecb money in a way that enables them to meet this objective most cost effectively . so , if loans go to creditworthy customers , they continue financing the sector of private use the cash . . this like credit provided by italian banks , and over the last several months , most of the new cash will to safe households and large established firms , i be lent myself . means . . it 's unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that european economies now require , but to continue functioning will allow that bank markets . . the alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and the banque de france : purchases by europe ’s banks of their countries ’ government bonds .
but symbolic measures , while important , are not enough to bring about real progress . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all of its citizens . it would improve their standing in europe and beyond in doing so . turkey has an important role to play in its region and the world – one that is undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide . the approach of disingenuous to the genocide a reputation as an honest , reliable partner is its efforts inconsistent . .
f@@ di domestic investment and exports be promoted separately . has for this reason . furthermore , foreign investors do not to diplomats or civil servants deal , want . they want to talk to private-sector experts who understand their sectors companies the technical and financial needs . yet , except for costa rica ’s foreign investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after the ida-ireland , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies have succeeded in adopting best practices . promote both investment despite the failure of such institutional arrangements in the past , and domestic foreign is many .
fossil-fuel markets global transformation is only a matter of time with the paris climate agreement . investors may change the assessments of risk accordingly , and related to severe uncertainty . large mining companies can prepare for this shift by moving from fossil fuels to other materials , such as iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , rare earth elements , and lithium , as well as mineral fertilizers , which will be needed in large quantities to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . might even be done at a profit , during latent overproduction times , coal phasing . third , the world needs a better means of assessing mining ’s ecological risks .
he also the x-ray patterns first of partially based on dna obtained . arrived in cambridge in 1935 to a graduate student with bernal work is a chemistry graduate from vienna , max perutz . he was given excellent hemoglobin crystals and the best x-ray diffraction patterns soon produced to date the year of next . but the observable diffraction pattern -- the intensities and positions of the individual reflections -- represents only half of the data needed to deduce the structure of the diffracting object . it gives i.e. , the stages of the stages but not amplitude in an oscillatory motion -- without which the atomic positions could not be determined in mathematical terms .
the endgame to determine the final shape of the union of european is underway . it began with the publication by the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe of a draft of the first sixteen articles of the " treaty to establish a constitution for europe . " the text mostly replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d'estaing 's " skeleton " constitution , presented last november , and the conclusions reached by the convention 's working groups . is mostly is the word of key . hold for economics was such fidelity .
demand outstripping supply is , driven by growth and population . firms pay to do business more in africa where the infrastructure-investment gap $ 68-108 billion totals per year . . experience electrical outages , the annual sales of 15 % costing them , on average , in nigeria similarly , while all companies need data for investment and operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are often skewed by political agendas , and always reliable are not . . . for example , by problems when it was finally conducted , scheduled for 2008 for a census was delayed by nine years .
suffered a similar fate in 2016 is media group rbc the editorial team . nor have the closures spared leading regional outlets like siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad ’s top independent weekly newspaper , novye kolesa . each of these outlets was distinguished by its coverage of sensitive stories – from conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . russia today has less press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . the basic media most are very slowly in and che@@ ch@@ n@@ ya crimea .
taking action are finally , and businesses around the world a growing number . this month , thousands gathered for the un ’s climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , continued collaboration further progress and expectations are high . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the carbon pricing leadership coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 businesses and strategic partners to put a value on carbon dioxide emissions . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s target of limiting the increase in global average temperature to less than 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , to 1.5 ° above preindustrial levels – we must dramatically cut emissions .
once greece goes , runs on bank deposits follow in spain and italy are likely . . stop their local bank in switzerland , norway , or new york and italian depositors from wiring is nothing . , there . the ecb could buy government bonds and fund the bank runs will be chaos and the eurozone still standing . the scale of such an operation would credit risk of huge expose the ecb , would be enormous . but it could , in principle , step in – if northern europe permitted .
here , it seems clear that unmo ’s political interests have been allowed to dictate that the country ’s key opposition leader should be tried on charges that no real democracy that embraces the rule of law would even consider leveling , and convicted on evidence that no truly independent court would accept . political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and in other countries in the region , frequently tout the model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who died this month . yet the path on which both countries have embarked was not lee ’s path . yes , lee ’s system enabled him to remain in power for 31 years , and he did use the civil – not criminal – courts to harry his opponents . to ensure that meritocracy triumphed over patronage is also relied on elements of democratic contestation . , lee , but
are all his supporters “ crazies , ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , called them ? trump ’s critics argue that he is playing to the basest instincts of disaffected voters , who hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , distrust bankers ( or anyone with a higher education , for that matter ) , and still ca n’t get over the election of a president whose father was black . trump , in the comedian jon stewart ’s words , is “ america ’s id , ” or at least the id of a large number of mostly white , mostly older , mostly small-town americans . this may be so , all . but trump is the democratic world wider phenomenon part .
the picture is also mixed in europe . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain in recession , and their gdps will continue to shrink . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % and still shows no sign of improving . contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , and shrink by 0.4 % this year is expected . is the spanish economy . for finland , britain , and italy , rates of below-average growth are expected .
malmö – “ everyone knows ” that you should drink eight glasses of water a day . after all , this is the advice of a multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s national health service . carrying water bottles with us , sipping at all times , ensure drink our daily quota trying that we stay hydrated and healthy means healthy living . indeed , often we drink without being thirsty , but that is how it should be : as the beverage maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain may know a lot , but it does n’t know when your body is thirsty . ” sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable , but powerade offers this sage counsel : “ you may be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid if you build your fluid intake gradually . ”
they face unprecedented risk penalties on their borrowing costs , and plummeting consumer demand . they facing huge uncertainties are . the future be acceptable . will power plants what kinds ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide as in the past ? in that require long-distance automobile commutes , far-flung communities , afford a suburban lifestyle , can the united states ?
weak mandates , insufficient funding , disorganized structures , and the absence of a global governance system have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ ability to act with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . as i argue in germany this week , g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reshape the migration governance system with proactive protection policies that would enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . the prospect for action is better this time , given that the talks will be held in europe , the impact of the migration crisis was deeply felt where although past summits have produced little more than talking points . at the moment , an alphabet soup of multilateral agencies and nonprofit of the challenge tackles elements . . these include independent groups like refugees international ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
their processing power averaged ten instructions of machine per second , and there were roughly 2000 computers in the world by the late 1950s . with processing power averaging several hundred million instructions per second -- a four _ billion _ fold increase in raw automated computational power , an average annual growth rate of 56 % , 300 million computers are now . , there ! every reason to will continue for decades in this pace of productivity growth , i believe . is there . that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow for a doubling of the density of transistors on a chip every eighteen months , the co founder of intel 's noticed more than generation . the scale of investment needed to make what is known as " moore 's law " hold has grown exponentially along with the density of transistors and circuits , but " moore 's law " remains in force , and engineers see no immediate barriers that will bring the process of improvement to a halt anytime soon .
by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even greater number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” and right now , we are at the edge of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain access to health care . in developing regions , bridge the gaps . help is these multidimensional , scalable interventions . can do neither corporations , but governments alone they to achieve the best possible outcome work together . need .
fortunately , he during their final months in the white house bold diplomacy have set a precedent , and still has time . . in late 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized the state department to begin “ substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . a peace framework future published his parameters . is bill clinton in late 2000 . and of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert , she stopped in late 2007 , the conference of annapolis . now it is obama ’s turn , and he should push for a un security council resolution that establishes new parameters for a future peace accord , and replaces un security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six-day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
loughner ’s shooting of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as did the court-ordered evaluation of his mental competency . indeed , on the other side of the world , the newspaper the australian 12 months in just one mention compared , mentioned gi@@ f@@ for@@ ds . though mass shootings are extremely rare even in the us , the media ’s coverage continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . the us may well be exporting the mental-illness stigma to the rest of the world in this manner . similarly , cho ’s history of mental illness was widely discussed .
it and auto@@ cr@@ acy the confrontation of global is a key front . . for europe , it to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders represents a unique chance . . is a large country , with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential in many sectors , ukraine . more important , successful ukraine reforms make the likely of positive developments in russia . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the poorest country in europe .
that the euro can not function like the dollar , given that the eurozone is not a federalized state , the notion . is at one extreme . rather , it should could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform under which countries , you 'll resemble the export system . . but that ultimately make it unworkable , this strategy has serious risks . which could lead to social and political instability in the weaker countries , internal de@@ valuation would relative prices realigning . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s south exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration .
how prove insufficient for expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of orderly markets comes is the problem . under what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond these first two items on the checklist , i disagree about . , economists . to increase monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby boosting short-term interest rates , try , should governments ? should they expanding the scale of government programs , or expenditures bringing forward . directly , or indirectly , ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or classes of assets ?
it also includes a promise to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . the uk ministers mainly responsible for the talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – have so far managed to secure agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 deadline , a two-year transition period will begin . whether negotiators can first agree on what to do about the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland once the uk leaves the customs union , it is not set in stone . , but even this agreement . you can in outside a customs union without a border , a customs union . with border be . there is where it 's not true no example anywhere in the world .
a common capital market , a unifying safe asset , or macroeconomic tools of stabilization is also very sure . is the eurozone . a mandate of and flexible realistic needs the ecb . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , that mandate should probably still be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term ” – is too narrow . within a 1.5-2.5 % band , over a longer time horizon , the ecb makes a call of eur 2 % needed . is a definition of broader .
when it comes to wishing for peace in the middle east – virtually a new year ’s tradition ­ – one needs to be careful . so many hopes many negotiations for the failure of bitter have vanished . . but we have a wish for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing peace , can create one of peace ’s preconditions : goodwill . palestine and israel should jointly be awarded the football world cup in 2018 bid for . lasted far too long is the conflict of israel-palestine .
how to get to the point where iraq has a police force and army that can be trusted to maintain law as well as order is , so the real question . get anywhere close covered must be much ground . no one should if some motives that are less than pure be surprised notwithstanding the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police . as irbil , were traditionally different that , de facto ethnic segregation is introduced in areas . , and in northern iraq are settled . sharia law is introduced by force in other areas .
that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , though not in the way that rumsfeld meant , in madrid , the demonstrations the differences suggest . of course , it would be a collapsing spain for a poland of thriving is inaccurate . . given the overall european crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . unemployment is around 10 % ( still less than half the spanish rate ) , and annual gdp growth is around 1 % ( spain ’s growth rate is negative ) . as well as the perceptions of europe , two countries in the moods and their role in it , contrast starkly , but
berlin – the decision by the united kingdom ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union is not an example of the british black humor that i love . it ’s not “ monty python ’s flying circus , ” “ yes , prime minister , ” or “ fawlty towers ” ; it ’s just boris , michael , and nigel and their disastrous political reality show . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave a gaping hole in the eu . it will not destroy europe , but . at the moment , the same can not the uk be said . .
as the state of israel celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember the nakbeh , or “ catastrophe ” – their story of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . but , for both sides , as well as external powers , the events of 1948 and what has followed – the occupation since 1967 of the remaining lands of historic palestine – represents a tragic failure . due to illegal settlements and its continued military occupation is at fault for this failure . , israel . despite giving lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to leave the occupied territories continues to be in direct contravention to what the preamble to united nations security council resolution 242 termed the “ inadmissible taking of land by force . ” but the international community , palestinians , and as well , bear responsibility , although different level , arabs .
augment , or even be superior to , it would address the root cause of the unwillingness to spend , fiscal programs of stimulus . could reducing uncertainty . moreover , could for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk being insured against is prevented , impose no costs on the government . in contrast to fiscal policy , recession insurance . the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . banks might condition loans to firms on their purchase of recession insurance , which might help credit markets function better , addressing a serious problem underlying the current crisis point . is blanchard and his colleagues . tantalizingly , they say that doing this would create “ a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , ” although they do not explain how this market would be structured .
so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s foundations . first , in order to sustain the common currency financial stability ensure , fiscal and external-account balances are kept . second , removing imbalances is the responsibility of national governments within the context of a rescue regime arranged by supranational authorities – the european commission and the european central bank – in cooperation with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . quickly enough to ward off major crises , control destabilizing imbalances . shows the saga of greek . irresponsible policies result is not solely imbalances .
a chinese slowdown fueling growing concern , fall to $ 20.4 billion . continued as a result . china ’s downturn appears sudden ; after all , its exports had been rising at double-digit rates every month this year until may . in fact , the chinese economy ’s true condition had long been obscured , but has now been exposed by more stringent regulation of activities such as speculative trading of the renminbi masquerading as trade payments . in particular , china ’s “ two systems in one country ” enabled exports to bonded warehouses in hong kong to be used to pad trade statistics . moreover , increase in the volume of cargo being shipped from ports in the face of a slump would be chinese exports .
the value of any project depends to a large extent on effective post-investment management for most equity investors . must therefore be carefully worked out at the start of an investment , something that has been all but absent previously is and obligations for clear . after all , a & m is only a long road the step of first . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine does currently in latin america – they have a responsibility not only to invest wisely and sustainably for the sake of their companies , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially if business leaders the engagement of and long-term newly articulated principles of sustainable investment adhere .
and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s self-defense forces . members of the self-defense forces displayed exemplary cooperation with the us and australian armed forces in the wake of the great east japan earthquake in 2011 , and they have earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere they have been deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and most recently , the philippines . means that japan will bear its own share of responsibility for assuring the security that supports global prosperity and stability to to peace , make a contribution of proactive . working alongside countries we share values and common interests with which , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to the skies and the seas . as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving .
how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible capacity to negotiate if talks can not begin until , as israel insists , they retreat on their minimum condition of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? for all that israel downplays its significance , the arab peace initiative of 2002 still offers a critically important deal : full normalization of relations by the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . can the position of arab league be sustained with peace talks going nowhere , how long ? whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears completely from the agenda is israel another question of big . it can not be a state occupying the whole of historical israel , but can be a jewish state as founding father david ben-gurion warned , israel .
it caused russia to the democratic dynamic lose , but it the crisis that gave rise to corruption , which affects officialdom at all levels . rode along on oil and gas , will not last these resources , i forgetting . is we russians . but we did n't solve live in millions of russians , poverty the problem even with favorable world market conditions . i am convinced that russia ’s troubles all come down to politics . we need at all levels , initiative , and a democratic , competitive environment .
but is not a chance to and still remain in the eurozone greece to default allowing . : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass huge debts , funded by the ecb , without having any intention of repaying . fatally undermined would be in the eurozone , fiscal responsibility . . yet forcing a defaulting greece out of the eurozone – against its will – is not an option , either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , and there would doubtless be serious repercussions beyond the country ’s borders . in my judgment , there are only two viable options left . the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to assess realistically greece ’s lack of solvency and so stop providing ela funds to its banking system .
if its owners fail to initiate the development process within a year , the country 's tax on formerly public land . is for example , china . . this brings us to the second key lever to expand a construction industry cohesive and more effective of affordable housing : . rely largely on the same methods used 50 years ago builders often , and the housing-construction industry is very broken as it stands . . by standardizing design elements like ceiling heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction companies can cut costs and raise productivity , as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks . further savings are possible through industrial approaches , such as the use of components – for example , walls and flooring slabs – built offsite .
encouragingly , developing-country governments the vaccine of hpv have increasingly demanding . this makes sense : of the 266,000 women who die from cervical cancer every year – an average of one every two minutes – 85 % are in developing countries . this figure rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths is expected . , if left unchecked . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not just an effective solution , one that prevents 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this how cervical , breast and prostate cancer in africa conference stop , cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil society representatives met a few weeks ago is one reason . .
washington , dc – ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships between private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . brazilian society the levels of highest have reached the corruption scandals . have been imprisoned convicted and is corporate owners of several high-level politicians . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under indictment . the economy of brazilian taken its toll is the drama .
this short frictions and inequalities being all around raises long-term . . will become fragile , far more so than for , say , globalization nowadays , support , i warning . , but i am not arguing against healthcare capitalism . rely command and control far too much , and provide and providers far too few incentives for patients to make efficient choices is most countries . nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether healthcare pressures will ultimately cause the current trend towards free ( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse , with a very large chunk of the economy reverting to a more socialist system . that it is better to be red than dead , some societies could decide .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell ’s equations , which depict the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ have an independent existence and an intelligence of their own , that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get more out of them than was originally put into them . ” not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s atomic model “ the highest form of musicality in the sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman , describing his discovery of new laws of physics , declared , “ you can recognize truth by its beauty and simplicity . ” universal among modern physicists are similar sentiments . pluto photographs , or atomic bombs , working iphones could never produce wishful thinking .
why , with clearly formulated alternatives on the table , the action of a predictably disastrous course choose did the government . ? there are strategic interaction , ignorance of three possibilities : . let ’s start with the last one . in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed because two contending groups are trapped in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but expect the other group to bear the brunt of the cost . they their willingness to withstand the pain other group provide information . by delaying .
a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe a world of and much better implies us . here how the fed comes in is . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation – or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – the us would set in motion rapid rebalancing in the eurozone . rather than see the 30 % euro appreciation that would follow from the ecb ’s current monetary policy , german exporters would scream for measures to prevent america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” finally bringing about moderate inflation in the north rather than the current grinding depression in the south . in which it trusted is n't , we of honoring the trust that is required of it to play the role of global economic hegemon has proven record . .
and a group of 47 republican senators wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next congress may not honor whatever nuclear deal they reach with obama . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in the fact that multilateral engagement is still needed , and this is always more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , multilateral leadership requires not only clearer and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to bear the costs of those rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold the “ responsibility to protect ” civilians or taking concrete steps to reduce – and eventually eliminate – nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . but a different kind of engagement require will lead in the century of twenty-first .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have ruined their country . while they claim to be redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they refuse international assistance , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , die ) from severe shortages of food , medicines , and medical supplies . be stopped urgently if its viability as a state and a society is to be reestablished must be the venezuela destruction . of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through a free and fair presidential election before the end of this year , that requires a new government . to be sure , his associates , ma@@ dur@@ o and will not simply as losing power would likely mean long prison terms in the united states for drug trafficking or in the hague for crimes against humanity , step down . .
so far , china has largely taken a “ field of dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ build it , and they will come . ” indeed , over the last 30 years , economic liberalization massive public investment spurred rapid urban growth in coastal provinces . and now china ’s leaders are increasingly taking that strategy inland , making critical investments in physical and human capital . but the effectiveness of these investments will depend on the sequence and rate of their implementation , and on how skillfully they are adapted to each locality ’s distinct resources , needs , and aspirations . be addressed must be four issues of interrelated .
if china really is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost entirely isolated internationally . will kim respond to that isolation recklessly , by continuing to antagonize the south , or pragmatically , by becoming more flexible ? that to answer is a easy question . is not . . it should the provocations of his parade is not kim clear . . was a halt to mocking loudspeaker broadcasts in the recent crisis ; the united states worsened his relations with china , and his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , .
the religious radicalization of young people growth of islamic fundamentalism is that has changed since the only thing . only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish immigrants – has highlighted the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that has developed in his country . as rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged immigrants are matched by the rise of far-right political parties , the need to across europe in france , address this outcome . has become more important . european countries need more immigrants on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations ; europe can not ethnic confrontation afford . the statistics are confusing and sometimes contradictory , but the european union ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million may grow by a further 100 million immigrants by mid-century .
are science particularly disadvantaged , because english-language journals call the shots , but because they lack academic excellence . is countries where english is not the lingua franca . do not in the science community , command the same attention . is journals non-@@ english academic . as a result , is limited by many countries can undertake , research topics . the scope , and they must struggle to retain scientific talent . this is more resilient in order to make them in the middle east , where governments are struggling to diversify their economies , particularly true . . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on the channels that determine whether or not a scientist will have a successful career , developing countries will have to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive footing .
we 've been the uncontrolled military escal@@ ation of an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked that will define the events and trends about his best commentators as in previous years . it will weigh on the present for many years to come , what happens in 2020 is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address these concerns head-on . he should his past , links but by his delivery , to the trump administration . , be not judged . .
essentially two competing explanations is there . larry summers proposed the secular stagnation hypothesis , first . the actual interest rate is currently the equilibrium interest rate at which demand would balance supply . is . is its key premise . this seems paradoxical , because interest rates most advanced economies are close to zero . . but the market rate and inflation difference is the rate of real of interest .
african players their commercial opportunities during a crucial period of league play reduced from europe , i grumbled . for their part . but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that combine globalization ’s opportunities with strong domestic foundations . for the winner of the cup was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire or any of the other african teams loaded with star players from european leagues , but egypt , which fielded only four players ( out of 23 ) who play in europe . a club of domestic , and 20 from european club featured just a single player . egypt defeated in the final . egypt played much better and deserved to win , but who watched that game , europeans been familiar . .
berlin – the world ’s task in addressing north korea ’s saber rattling is made no easier by the fact that it confronts an impoverished and effectively defeated country . it such circumstances that calm foresight most is necessary is on the contrary . the genius of the habsburg empire ’s prince klemens von metternich in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars was that he did not push a defeated france into a corner . although metternich sought to deter any possible french resurgence , he restored france ’s prewar frontiers . ki@@ ss@@ became i to accept the versailles treaty provide it with incentives . , but i could neither deter a defeated germany . by contrast .
a judgment call is a recession sometimes dating . followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 in 1980 , a brief , america . that is probably the appropriate way to think about it in a broader historical context , and it was one major episode , many economists believe . . but the economy did indeed grow in the interim – just barely enough to consider them distinct recessions . and it identified two recessions was politically consequential . , since they were separated by a transition from president jimmy carter to president ronald reagan .
in the 1990s , for example , sanctions regimes were seven per year average rate introduced . of the 67 cases in that decade , two-thirds were unilateral sanctions imposed by the states of united . during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that around 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion people , were subject to some form of us sanctions . by large countries against small countries , the sanctions of the majority of great are imposed . has nearly 8,000 sanctions in place worldwide , the state target largest with iran , the us .
in the same tweet justifying his phone call with tsai , he repeated a false charge that china is devaluing its currency to gain export advantages vis-à-vis the us . escaped of date or ten years is international economics knowledge . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperately trying to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . is apparently no reason of good antagonizing china , trump . worse , by announcing that the us will withdraw from the trans-pacific partnership – designed , at least in part , to shape global trade and investment flows according to western rules , rather than china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning a us policy that could have checked china ’s surging influence in asia .
there to step in and assume what had been the us role is no alternative power willing . , what we do know . his leadership mostly on consolidating domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest is focused . , china mentioned candidate is a frequently . . china ’s interest in regional and global institutions seems designed mostly to bolster its economy and geopolitical influence , rather than to help set rules and create broadly beneficial arrangements . likewise , russia is led by a government focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe by a narrowly-based economy a country . is tied down by its problematic relationship with pakistan is preoccupied with the challenge of economic development . , india .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . many to argue that china must stimulate its economy further to guarantee 8 % annual growth have however . , but may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china . is the newly released growth data . since early 2010 , to contain inflation and property bubbles in order , the chinese government tightened monetary policy has . as a result , the national bureau may even have fallen , albeit modestly , and be stabilizing seem . , and inflation fell in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low . the slowdown in china ’s growth rate is , to a certain extent , a reflection of the success of the government ’s effort to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as of other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy .
have in an un@@ controlled military escal@@ ation an interest in neither side , and the us been at war for decades . projects asked the best about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months for its commentators as in previous years . if the selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . from a moral standpoint , there is a strong case to be made for respecting a woman ’s personal freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than forcing her to put her health or wellbeing at risk by carrying an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to term . but if they frame abortion first and foremost as a health matter , she is misplaced arguments muddied .
the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them off the global development agenda . in nairobi , lured by the promise of employment , resources , and a better life , only to realize that they are not equipped to survive there and that their children will grow up in a slum , more people arrive . most under the age of 20 are urban slums living . without access to education , this generation – which will soon be the majority – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . how long for how long will it accept a lack of water , sanitation , education , and dignity ? will serve a minority ? but
is that the principle can not applied consistently be is the problem . a small garden of well-explored territory surrounded by a dim and dark forest of disasters is the world in which we live . forests , farms , and fish ; asteroids and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions , earthquakes , and tsunamis ; human over-population and extinction of non-humans ; are legion : is disasters lurking in the distance . all these disasters – and many others still to be imagined – are possible , and many of them are unacceptable . in order to prevent all of them , of cost , is the principle of precautionary .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , economic policy has focused on unemployment . the massive job losses of the great depression – reversed only when world war ii , and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , kick-started economic growth – had a lasting impact on at least two generations . but employment is just one facet of welfare , and in today ’s world , it is not enough . following most powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us interests a time would occur and this shift .
have in an un@@ controlled military escalation , an interest in neither side , and the us been at war for decades . projects asked that will define the events and trends about his best commentators as in previous years . it what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come is . , if there is one common theme in this year 's selection . pitted two rival military alliances against each other is the century of twentieth cold war . the sin@@ o-@@ american competition involves two economies integrated both with each other and with the world rest is closely that by contrast .
the fact that can and should make restitution in the west is systematically in the name of western strategic interests , they thrown their land . . between 1968 and 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the removal of everyone living on the 55 islands that now constitute the british indian ocean territory ( biot ) , and that were split off from mauritius at the time of its independence . this of the united states , which at the time was embroiled in the vietnam war and required , for understandable security reasons , the use of the island of diego garcia as an air and naval base behest was done . . had no settled population in the chagos islands , the foreign office british said . the seychelles and mauritius , where they fend for themselves were deposited . were done . is the chagossians .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed the second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his party won the general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for the new administration , which seems willing to work with both technocrats and opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . following iran 's second leader most powerful the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . elsewhere in the world , growing challenges to us interests a time would occur and this shift . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
owing to the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can issue emergency collateralized funding only to at least five eligible institutions – something of a problem if only your four largest banks are in trouble – and it must confirm that a counterparty is financially viable before any funding can be made available . but left for after financial order has been restored best is establishing whether a troubled entity is viable the task . as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made available to systemically important financial institutions immediately – even when they are insolvent and in resolution . in any case , full employment during cyclical downturns of price stability the pursuit of countercyclical now seems destined for an extended involuntary holiday . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , the major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classic , unadulterated cyclical downturns .
to fail without a war chest of liquidity to prevent a run on public debt while the appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility is more fragile and liable . is fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing . at the same time , if greece does not fully adjust its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still be likely in order to avoid the risk of contagion to the rest of the euro zone and the consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . after all , could have the same global systemic effects as the collapse of lehman brothers did in 2008 , a greece default . sovereign spreads are already spain , euro-zone members of other , and pricing risk . the eu and the ecb are worried about the moral hazard of any “ bailout . ”
this region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns sharing a mountainous - and porous - border with afghanistan . have long urged the necessity of extending the writ of pakistan 's constitution to the tribal belt , where religion-based parties have wide support is human rights groups . these religious parties , a coalition of which now heads the provincial government in the north west frontier province , were politically marginalized until given a central role by pakistan 's military dictator of the 1980 's , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan 's covert intervention in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . throughout his rule , religion-based politics intelligence agencies trained and equipped by pakistani and us with the number of madrassahs and fighters grew . led away from pro-jihadi policies to a u-@@ turn by pakistan is the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and washington 's subsequent pressure , .
america has always tried to its markets from foreign competition insulate throughout its history . over ideology once more is so history . pulled been has neo-liberal policies prop . they may still to an older and more durable model , she is spinning . , but invoked the global free market . it tacitly accepted that the world will contain a variety of economic systems and regimes in future is .
the first few years of his rule were dominated by his struggle to gain control of the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s staff . his hostility to foreign players in the industry ( he expropriated several american oil companies ’ holdings in 2007 ) limited investment and held back production . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom and used it as a cash cow ; many of his social programs were funded directly from the company ’s budget . cut back on maintenance and expansion , which increased the number of accidents and limited production was forced . starved of cash .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear facilities is another possibility . would likely retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , and , using hamas and hezbollah , this iran , and such one downside against israel . a further blow and global economic recovery leading to a spike in prices interfere with oil traffic . could also be iran . moreover , while a preventive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and it might also create conditions that cause problems for the regime ’s domestic opponents . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility given the enormous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran .
with america , the british union losing . remembered is lord north . two centuries on , the outgoing prime minister , david cameron , may be remembered for losing two unions – with europe and between england and scotland . scottish countries want a europe scotland without britain while to be in a britain without europe , conservatives want scotland . . and with northern ireland ’s republicans , led by sinn fein , demanding a vote to reunite with the south , the very existence of the uk is now squarely on the agenda . the government should quickly it will be negotiating with the eu on the basis of the norway option of membership of the eea , i announce . : lessen uncertainty and risk there 's one way . .
a power-sharing agreement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography is not well suited to an orderly division along sectarian lines . assad ’s war aims have been reduced to avoiding decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . the rise of the islamic state did lend support to the government ’s claims that syria risks being taken over by terrorist groups ; nonetheless , the regime is finding itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s final days are unlikely to be pretty . will be fighting for their survival is the tight-knit members of the alawite minority many members , his clan .
it 's not because this belief corresponds to objective reality if have little need of government believe that they are no longer part of society is super-rich . . it because portrays markets as self-standing entities that run on their own fuel is the story line prevailing of our time . , i is . . this afflicts the middle class no less , society all segments than the rich is a story . . to expect that the super-rich will act less selfishly than any other group , there 's no reason . it greater equality and social inclusion the way is not so much interest . , but .
but it can not account for why capital expenditure has been insufficient to prevent rates from trending down for more than three decades , the last three years have been low . , and why capital spending was weak . . is the shift in the composition of activity like manufacturing , from capital-intensive forms of production , standing the only explanation . if there should be multiple treatments , there multiple causes has . there should be tax incentives for banks and strengthened regulation of nonbank financial institutions to prevent them from excessive risk-taking , and private capital spending in the shortfall compensate ; . finally , to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown , a higher inflation target would give them more room . should set central banks .
the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner — chairing a g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example — seems to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal . once again exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a façade of laws and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule . the danger for the world is that putin ’s lawlessness is being exported . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy is taking root . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential election , and the on again off again criminal charges brought against the opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko .
outstretched hands live in gel america , many people . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments instead of in society receiving to survive just enough accustom people . . across the region , politicians that writer octavio paz once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres ” create clients instead of citizens , people who expect instead of demand . democratic latin america limps sideways because it ca n’t run ahead . the poor , the innovative , and those the entry obstacles many is also access to credit there .
two examples of this are the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new inclusive growth and development index . competitiveness to increase market share without sacrificing margins or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity has do with the ability for example . the growth of the inclusiveness has to do with the disparities of income and growth across different regions and social groups . but this what these indexes really measure is n't . . instead , the indexes include variables – what they refer to as the “ policy space ” – that are supposed to cause either competitiveness or inclusive growth .
from the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” there were so many generous subsidies , grants , and transfer payments – aimed at everyone from the truly needy to artists unable to sell their work – that after-tax wages were often barely higher than benefits . its unreported cash payments did so in the underground economy . , rarely returned to work after they lost or left a job . , so people . his large@@ sse on the economy , i took a toll of heavy . whether one considered the dutch welfare state humane and generous , or bloated and foolhardy . but unlike , say , the french , the dutch have to promote a return to work in the formal labor market policies a series responded to their past .
but that unless the us falls into recession in the coming months , trump will be re-elected , the global and economic financial elite significant segments seem like . some may even be hoping for it seem resigned to such a result . ; moreover , their prognosis is not only based on being a fear again . at this point , the comparison with the 1930s inevitably mind comes . have in common little of course , adolf trump but in their apparent acceptance of trump ’s re-election , large parts of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s financial and industrial elites when hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
asian countries need to change the rules of game providing youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder , to avoid such a future . to achieve this is not enough market mechanisms . at ensuring that the gains are shared much more equally and sustainably , policies aimed complementing their pro-@@ growth policies must be taken into governments . some asian governments been attempting to redistribution policies progressive tackle inequality . must be sure . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 .
the egyptian defenses blocked the central highway across the sinai with a fortified box containing powerful artillery and more than a hundred tanks , fronted by three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at each end . sharon had his troops climb over the sand dunes to enter the trench lines at their top end and attack down their length – a simple maneuver that the egyptians could have defeated had they not been pinned down by an artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing directly at them . had taped flashlights to their helmets so that the tank gunners could direct their fire at the egyptians just ahead of them is the israeli infantrymen . still , the artillery of egyptian have at least silenced the tanks firing at the trench line should was superior . . but who never had a chance in hand-to-hand combat , the crews of egyptian came in by helicopters .
countries should to conventional first-aid courses match participation rates . , aim in the longer term . in the last three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , partly owing to requirements that people in certain positions , such as child-care workers , have a first-aid certificate . requiring that people in particular occupations – including high-school teachers , nurses , and police officers – acquire a mental-health first-aid certificate would significantly enhance participation , thereby strengthening support for those who are struggling with mental-health problems . given the limited availability of mental-health professionals , the developing world are even more important . is such certifications . that the mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully adapted to the needs of communities with limited resources , in rural india , pilot work . shows .
the costs of producing these drugs , however , are much less than the market price , perhaps as low as $ 350 - $ 500 per year for some of the three-drug combinations used to treat aids . prices near to the cost of production provide these drugs . have offered . is some quality producers of generic drugs , such as cipla of india , . in response to this offer ( and to bad publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers squibb , three large patent-holding companies , announced that their willingness to supply the african market at " zero profit " – ie , at around $ 500 per patient per year for the aids drugs they produce . the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying of aids even when drugs exist to treat them raises deep questions about global intellectual property rights , because patent protection is creating a barrier to essential medicines reaching the world 's poor . but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries be combined with an assurance that poor people gain access to the medical care that they desperately need ?
but what if populist movements ’ continued electoral success helps to drive forward a broader political restructuring that ultimately strengthens european democracy ? the experience of macron himself is reinforced . , this reading . mac@@ ron centered on himself , with support from both center-left and center-right voters created a new party . has elected office never held . he seems to have in the process , restructured french politics . . next year ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of time magazine ’s “ person of the year ” issue featured salome karwah , a nursing assistant who not only survived the ebola epidemic in her native liberia that year , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . a end of tragic who met , karwah was a hero . she twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic takes every month . died in childbirth , a killer . , one year ago . has been dangerous for women and newborns throughout human history , childbirth . in the century of nineteenth , as one in 100 pregnancies in europe , as many ended with the death of the mother .
emulate them wanted is the region rest . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . more than one million live in jordan , turkey live is an estimated two million syrians . most of them are living outside refugee camps , and many are working – for the most part illegally . of programs that could cost their citizens jobs , their governments are naturally cautious . , and are about 10 % unemployment in turkey and jordan .
were no doubt complex is the reasons why chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq by george bush president . but the language used by those wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight from the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” that the rhetoric of us idealism had once again led to the death and displacement of millions , one reason elected obama in 2008 for americans . now when us politicians talk about “ freedom , ” people see bombing campaigns , torture chambers , and the constant threat of lethal drones . the problem with obama ’s america is rooted in the contradictory nature of his leadership .
president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news – by design . but that ’s because bush did n’t begin to address the issue that is looming ever larger in the region : the changing face of security in asia in view of china ’s growing economic and military might . russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise , this summer for example . this was followed by russian news reports that china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises , named “ indira 2005 , ” on the same scale before the end of this year . in the past , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and these exercises can not be explained away as simple “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance .
among health and health-care policies and programs national municipal governments and , emerging-market governments must address critical concerns . they should they need to address health and health-care outcomes , and the giving city governments . , consider reforms . . implemented needs is anticipatory city planning , , patient registers , , and based on realistic demographic forecasts , . should be adapted to local conditions , and be shared between emerging-market cities should be systems and reforms proven . . this affordable technologies and new , such as mobile tele@@ phony low-cost for use includes by commun@@ -@@ health workers .
shanghai – tight media control of the unrest in tibet has been followed by what , to some , looks like far more open coverage of the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . is this a change in china ’s media strategy , or just a short term change in tactics ? stands out in view of chinese public opinion in the latter phase of the tibet crisis is this question . much to the consternation of the western media , worldwide chinese people the tibetan riot its allegedly biased coverage lashed . they perceived in western media reports , the prejudice . took to the streets . is throngs of chinese expatriates and students .
as a result , our forebears ’ livers stayed healthy . meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( polymers of glucose ) , which was also transported to the liver , via the glycolytic pathway , and broken down for energy . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and which also caused the liver to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . so their livers also stayed healthy . by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as the energy source , not both did its part . , and nature .
living with hiv/aids who require treatment to stay alive for 34 million people 1 million new infections is there . that we have already won the battle against hiv/aids is in the developed world , a widespread misperception . , there . the crisis has merely become less visible in reality . sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . the disease the average national growth rates by 2-4 percentage points a year have reduced . is estimated . across africa .
the british economy , especially the sector of financial cause grave uncertainty would leaving the single market . that it would be unwilling to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk , she has said . is even the us . remaining in the single market , however , comes at a cost – one that british voters may not support . would have to adopt the sort of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping is the uk . it will be left alone , out in the economic cold if is unacceptable to the uk for the deficit of democratic .
as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly influence the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . to afghan control , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 is the management of the transition . is the first . the second is the election , also to be held in 2014 , of a new afghan president – a process that needs to permit the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that they are handing the country over to a legitimate government . for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite since the “ saur revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will be even more nerve-wracking . it will enter another period of political and strategic uncertainty , after almost a half-century of disorder and civil war , as the us military leaves .
new york – watching a sophisticated democratic society knowingly walk into a predictable and avoidable national disaster is a rare and alarming experience . are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on the post-brexit relationship will cause enormous damage to their country is most politicians of british . their eyes are open ; they are not sleepwalking into the abyss . following most powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . to us , growing challenges interests elsewhere in the world a time would occur and this shift .
this is no longer an option . in fact , even if the us were not attempting to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its long-standing – and already much-reduced – support for the castro government . relations with the us normalization is the cuba liberalization key . after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or through military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by external powers . be accurate only in the short term might political auto@@ cr@@ acy a chinese-style model shift .
much political activity in ways that imply new economic and political divisions , indirectly focused on exchange rates . has been directly or . in recent years . although countries have not descended fully into protectionism since the global financial crisis began , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force politicians to protect domestic markets while trying to gain external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is in order , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars in the process – is slim . it is well known that weidmann does not like it when the central bank european central banks buy sovereign bonds . but claiming that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry the risk of “ much stronger politicizing of exchange rates ” misses the mark .
the next four decades will grow the american population of the projects of census . today the us is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now it is still likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . but , given that nearly all developed countries are aging and face a burden of providing for older generations , it could help reduce the sharpness of the policy problem , not only is immigration economic power relevant . may be particular economic sectors important , even though that the short-term , directly measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , studies suggest a 6 % increase in patents per capita leads is a 1 % increase in of immigrant college graduates number .
in fact , only two of the six major economic tasks identified by the work conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . the call for enhanced social security is consistent with the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ’ profits to fund safety-net programs such as pensions and health care . likewise , the emphasis on markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift to a consumer society . but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of the timeworn “ kitchen sink ” approach to chinese economic policymaking – countless proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best , and that are often plagued by internal inconsistencies . a new approach is needed , and it will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is falling headlong into a serious slump – bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to this . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy – including europe – will escape its consequences . as european growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . relax , stop threatening others , and let the slowdown of economic do the work for him should be so trichet . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices on world markets , all of which are important factors behind currently elevated european inflation levels .
all major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy quickly fell into line politically , enabling putin to use the country ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that he could not intimidate militarily , owing to nato , were wooed with discounts – or punished with price hikes . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems to want to change that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia could become a menace to the continent again . as a result , whereas hungary pays gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland pays $ 526 – the highest price in the eu . they were right , but have paid a steep price for the poles .
but they have little factual basis have shown . may have emotional appeal . in fact , biopiracy is rare – so rare that it can be dealt with directly . instead , bureaucratic , politicized baroque system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and intellectual property creation created the world . by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources achieves this . is the treaty of seed . the seed treaty also brought under the control of its parties and secretariat the 15 research institutions that comprise the consultative group of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership .
he has also reduced the resources channeled to certain religious institutions , helped those in his circle to establish private banks by easing regulations , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guards corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the president has declined significantly , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media now publicly criticize his economic and political agenda . with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , it seems unlikely that the disgraced , unpopular president will abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . in fact , he had long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei curtailed his illegal efforts – and has now put a stop to mashai ’s candidacy altogether .
under monti ’s leadership , reforms were finally initiated and markets were calmed . to enhance the credibility of public finances , monti ’s government substantially increased taxes , particularly on real estate , while preserving the already record-high income-tax rate . highlighted that is a country of public debt and private wealth , like japan , is the plan of tax . italian family if europe for long , second to none is still . as the economist marco fortis points out . beyond growing international credibility , the italian political landscape two changes of major have the election campaign shaped .
one of the hardest lessons for senior government officials to learn – ­ including for me , when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister – is the futility , in all but a tiny minority of cases , of trying to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . it does n’t undo the original damage , and usually compounds it with further publicity . than when they see it reddening the faces , with rage or humiliation , of those in power , more enthusiastic about free speech . are never is the media . prosecution usually boosts leakers ’ stature , making it useless as a deterrent . but if to be possible , just as a zone of privacy in our personal and family lives is crucial to sustaining the relationships that matter most to us is good government . , some lines shall be drawn .
clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that will satisfy both groups . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as quickly as possible . she wants to get out before voters realize that the leave campaign sold them a false bill of goods , including the promise that they could keep all of the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without having to allow free movement of labor . moreover , although may was in the “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will be held responsible for any failures in the brexit negotiations . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly noticing “ wins . ”
among other things , such surveys should aim to create a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diet . to complement this effort , we must also invest in improving our understanding of how these risk factors – most often studied in connection with early childhood and adulthood – affect adolescents ’ health . for young people , the figure drops to 26 % ; health factors explain at least 50 % of the early death and disability of adults aged 50 and over according to the global burden of disease study . needed to inform health and policy adequately is more studies . on mental health , include a focus . should also be the effort of data-collection .
's politically as well as economically , a country of troubled these days but may have prompted musharraf to re-enter politics , talk of regime change . only the military support a candidate , and who has major constituencies the support thus , in a long interview with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution that could save the country from its current woes . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan , and the place that the people go to is the military , ” he said .
is n't authoritarian china , say , , they find a long-term growth with politicians effectively rewarded for myopic thinking . address this problem in a context of democratic at least two ways is there . first , governments could be bound more firmly to their predecessors ’ policy decisions . to take effect , without the risk that it will simply be repealed by a subsequent administration have time . will debated and enacted has been reported . . one example of the binding commitments long-term can work the european union .
this begins with political will and the setting of priorities . at the wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be placed prominently on the agenda of every politician running for election , at all levels of government . education get nationally and globally billing has for the sdgs to be operational . the incheon declaration total public expenditure at least 15-20 % the allocation calls for education . moreover , the ongoing decline in aid to education must be reversed , and new financial sources – such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – must be mobilized .
ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % a year , 10 % less than inflation , which means that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % a year . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , exploded by no less than 52 % in the last year , which points to inflation hitting 30 % soon . the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar peg ties their hands , because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they in the midst of the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some medium-sized banks into bankruptcy because of liquidity problems , the domestic credit squeeze rationing credit have returned to strict reserve requirements . . than a market is always worse . , rationing .
the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime – & a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before , because neither conservatives nor reformers were willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . one can only the failure route will be closed , in view of the seriousness of the situation , , i hope . . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are equally likely to play a role . the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then be faced by a united front of arab states , supported by turkey , the us , and , in a way , by israel . iran would become more complicated even in iraq , despite the majority of shia , and his position would difficult to maintain its foothold in lebanon , i find . .
the eu ’s approach to sharing power , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict by multiple committees can be frustrating and lacks drama , but it is increasingly relevant for many issues in a networked and interdependent world . as mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations , has put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour has come and gone . its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economy are contrasted with a united states more dominant even than rome … but the problem is not europe – it is our outdated understanding of power . ” the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the similar argument that european nations , singly and collectively , are the only states other than the us that are able to “ exert global influence across the full spectrum from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’ power . insofar as the term retains any meaning , the world is bipolar , and is likely to remain so over the foreseeable future . ”
tehran – iranians will go to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s re-election is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is , in fact , not at all clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly said in public settings that he will not declare his preference among the candidates . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there were some rumors that i support a special candidate for the presidential elections . but i have one vote , and i would not determine a certain candidate because the people themselves should choose their candidates based on their own knowledge . ”
but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and the lower tax rates on personal income will boost taxable incomes as individuals increase earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . will raise taxable profits , especially in the short term , as companies repatriate some of the existing stock of overseas funds is also a tax territorial system move . although the net tax changes may widen the budget deficit in the short term , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and the increased accumulation of capital will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which will cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . an important legislative reason why will return to surplus in the future in the budget of projected is there . the tax programme republican have only a small majority in the senate , where the filibuster rule requires a three-fifths majority to pass most legislation is the republicans .
revitalize its operation sophia initiative to combat refugee smuggling in the mediterranean must also be the eu . europe needs to asylum-seekers economic migrants handle , second . would help to ensure that those in fear for their lives can be given a fair hearing in which their rights are protected separating them ; has brought its asylum system close to collapse , i combining them . . requires economic migrants green-card policy , an effective blue with an overall immigration target , addressing genuine economic and social needs in the eu . wait before introducing the scheme until the migration crisis next must not be provided for and .
will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring with it more emerging-market problems this year ? to what extent are today ’s conditions comparable to those that triggered the asian crisis of 1997 or other abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? that they lacked in the past , most major middle-income countries have significantly lowered their public distribution , i point out . is emerging-market bulls . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the asian crisis of 1997 was caused by large public deficits . in both cases , the effort to defend a fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals was a major factor , as was true in turkey in the year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 .
to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week would have liked their sixties and fifties many people . long for more time for education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children people at the same time . if let everyone work and more years work , both desires may be fulfilled . one option is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and an average working life that extends up to age 70 – and to even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise . without reducing prosperity economic growth slowing , such a reform could be implemented over several decades .
it commitment is now by which bound is . . “ bouncing ” britain in is simply impossible . is now so hostile , and in particular to the euro to the eu in general , that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion is the public opinion british . denmark ’s government has done just this and seems to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible he is unlikely to try .
by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach nearly three times their pre-industrial level in 2100 , the range of scenarios the middle considered . some state local governments enacting measures to cut co2 emissions remains the science behind such projections skeptical . more importantly , companies such as general electric are that beyond government regulations , i go fine . , green goals committing . exemplifies the new coalition is a recent report by the energy policy of the national commission bipartisan . while president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb oil imports in the long run , such measures require major changes in transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete .
bought and sold by corporate managers as much as people in technical fields are ultimately is these fields people . the world of business top makes barely anyone . that they should motivate themselves to attain deep understanding , not rote memorization , of the subjects that they study , in order to fulfill the role of a true expert in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue is students to bear in mind the point of important . it should be similarly crucial to a career of successful at the same time . engaging , whether that is finance or physiology probably means pursuing what one naturally finds interesting . , achieving this kind of education .
abortion , while in many countries a political wedge issue , is simply a life fact : but the message on behalf of elizabeth and other women like her is also this day . . each year , 25 % of all pregnancies – about 56 million – are terminated . within every class of socioeconomic in every country , abortions occur . in the united states , in their 20s is abortion patients 61 % . , 59 % are already mothers , and identify with an organized religion for nearly two-thirds . most common in how is often limited by access to family-planning services , developing countries but discontinuation .
the ecb should not will be enough in a small increase in interest rates , i thinking . delude herself . if wage pressure comes , when , the ecb , to remain true to its word , may be forced to increase interest rates much more than it now expects . workers will not demand higher nominal wages , for they will understand that this would only lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment if the ecb stands firm is the argument of second . monetary policy probably wage bargaining has some effect . ; this argument is not irrelevant . expect too much from a stance tough ecb , but one should not be observed .
megaupload allowed its 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , television shows , and music , and some of the money earned by dotcom ( from advertising and subscriptions ) was on display at his mansion near auckland , where he kept his rolls-royce and other exotic cars . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that megaupload was merely providing storage for its subscribers ’ files , and had no control over what they were storing . but megaupload who that proved popular with other users , you uploaded files . , users offered money . . that aimed at stopping internet piracy , the united states considered legislation last month . that violations of copyright on the internet cost the us 100,000 jobs , which say . , the publishing and recording industries was written at hollywood , and the bills .
moscow – when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins in a few days , viewers will be presented with a minutely choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . of course , images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are the last thing that china ’s leaders have in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of “ harmonious development . ” but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallel is hardly far-fetched . indeed , by choosing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and the designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , to design the master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics that was a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to transform public space and sporting events into visible proof of their fitness and mandate to rule .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger since then . it the subject less relevant has also made . and reduced the credibility and legitimacy , but . seen by much of the public to seeking to answer them with integrity , or be asking the right questions . are not anymore . , economists . economics needs and to become more open to assumptions , methods , criticism to recover credibility . be ignored indefinitely may not dissenting voices spoken .
reckoning with a plutocratic cabinet , a psychologically unstable president is the states of united . multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises the throes is , europe . china , by contrast , is dynamic and outward-looking – providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . this is provide stability and global leadership , vision for germany and europe in short . and that imperative extends to chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd .
in keeping with china ’s recent efforts to project its “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced the idea of a historic , but dynamic culture at its best . other than the presence of a few people ’s liberation army soldiers , you would have been hard pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime or its founder , mao zedong . a nascent leader of the new international cultural order was the china of the projection . is equally significant . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium was the creation of the multinational design team of herzog & de meuron , with suggestions from the visual artist ai weiwei . including the fireworks specialist cai guo qiang , the dance star shen wei , and the composer tan dun , many artists the creation of the spectacle involved . earned their fame primarily in the west .
my research , which has included thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , has centered on one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? they are already the own doing , what , it turns out . is by promoting financial independence , empower women anywhere in the developing world , but especially one of the most effective ways . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” networks of like-minded women who pay dues to build a shared pool of resources . can or health costs to fund any number of items , such as small business expenses , school fees , be drawn . , this money
so the summit ’s outcome was far from a miracle . by any putative world government but the fact , the g@@ 8 seems to the decisions were n't . , what really mattered in heiligendamm . and india are more than some g8 members european important today politically and economically . on the other side of the atlantic , particularly spreading around the world . is this viewpoint . , europeans should understand . president putin ’s behavior at the summit clearly demonstrated what he thinks about the europeans ; not too much .
to be concerned is african leaders . though the eu claims that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the trade gains brought by the epas , as negotiated , are likely to be concentrated on a few agricultural products – and to exclude the least-developed countries . the ep@@ as will and weakening trade revenues , hurt intra-african trade . in most areas . emerge longer will brought by increased access to the eu market . , and some argue that the problem is more about timing , because the losses are likely to materialize immediately . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should compensate for some of the short-term losses be established . .
in washington a fresh look at the enola gay , the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima take sought , for example , the smithsonian institution . the issue studied an american historian and specialist of modern japan , john dower . he demonstrated how can be presented and valued in totally different ways , history : from an american or japanese point of view , even though falsifying sources , or making up facts . is no one . . is enough for the data of and combination selection for the americans , there was `` a heroic or triumphant account in which atomic bombs represent the final blow against an aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . ''
it would are growing with the entire process , increasingly frustrated . is where european leaders . , the european council shall be have . . moreover , johnson has already led the negotiations of previous that , ci@@ vil@@ -@@ service team disbanded . . any new agreement will be may ’s old deal with a few bells and whistles . it will push the debate of brexit down the road . that to run , show has years . .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own people has left a void that putin and iran have filled . how they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests from the sidelines is often european leaders . and as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood was not enough , we have also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the european union itself . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who frighteningly – but not surprisingly – resemble putin and erdoğan . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , in particular , have been busily constructing illiberal states within the eu .
must also be created so that such programs can be scaled up and implemented in different contexts is a common framework . for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would allow schemes to operate across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . and would retain their value as they moved with those who have earned them , credentials of standardized educational . so benefit systems nature must be work changes the nature . to advance innovative solutions that meet the urgent and evolving needs of workers , we work together . must opportunities and security to everyone deliver .
furthermore , the mexico of a far different way will react to the crisis without a correction of timely . have hang no such in brazil ; rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers were in awe of wall street . concerned with their own well being , not with foreign investors prosperity is brazilian policymakers . if and when the two part , brazilian policymakers will shed few tears for international investors . inflation is down to negligible levels : brazil has made a dramatic turn and below on the surface . .
forests and soils may be locked by incorporating carbon-reducing strategies into agriculture and land conservation . using rotational grazing techniques among other measures , and adopting permaculture principles , managing wetlands better , , but while the techniques exist . the climate emergency we face requires intense and urgent action as the storm season of 2017 should remind us . , but they energy and land use drive radical changes . . will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success , transforming the way people use and land acquire consume energy and . but do n’t despair : there is still time to save our climate .
many democratic candidates have care of government-funded health a major expansion called . but their proposals – a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , a national health service , or something else – do not all mean the same thing . several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – do not entirely agree on the details of such schemes , or simply have not spelled them out . but after former president barack obama attempted to fix the american health-care disaster with halfway measures – arguably the most that was politically feasible at the time – those vying for the democratic nomination clearly have more ambitious plans . has proposed universal childcare introduction , to be financed by a wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million , warren
but 's rationality and self-interest fully consistent that , there 's another explanation . when mainstream politicians the credibility lose , it to discount the promises they make is natural for voters . . to be attracted to candidates who have anti-establishment credentials and can safely be expected to depart from prevailing policies are more likely . , voters . see asymmetric information problem in the economists of the language they from the previous crop of politicians who oversold them the gains from globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances , who appear no different . , believe leaders . , claim to be re@@ reform . they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe leaders who appear no different from the previous crop of politicians who oversold them the gains from globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances ?
have moving to governance away from the washington consensus approach improved stability which is widely considered an african success story it is not liberal , but is disciplined , strong , and organized , rwanda . had more to do with power than democracy , paul kagame 's president the landslide reelection last year . his government was criticized for in the run-up , free speech and human rights to vote stifling although kagame remains popular . the conclusion i draw is not that human rights do n’t matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is sustained progress in economic and institutional governance .
rely on a threshold level of safety , stability , and predictability is are his blood that , the cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital . it under threat be seems like that . , this threshold is . . preventing local and regional conflict from delivering large systemic shocks requires recovery in the developed countries the developing world continued economic progress . it 's economic matters to strengthen the core systems that enable global flows than it is to address strictly in terms of priorities . moreover , a clear , shared interest in doing so : no one benefits from systemic risk the expansion is there .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that the big banks have never properly been investigated for the mortgage origination , aggregation , and securitization behavior that was central to the financial crisis – and to the loss of more than eight million jobs . but , thanks to the efforts of new york ’s attorney general , eric schneiderman , and others , serious discussion has started in the united states about an out-of court mortgage settlement between state attorney generals and prominent financial-sector firms . evicting their residents foreclosing on homes is currently focused on talks among the obama administration , state officials . but leading banks are also accused of illegal behavior – inducing people to borrow , for example , by deceiving them about the interest rate that would actually be paid , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . the bank leaders civil lawsuits would uncover evidence that could be used in criminal prosecutions , i fear . involved if these charges are true .
“ over the rivers and down the highways and along countless jungle paths , the population of east pakistan continues to hemorrhage into india : an endless unorganized flow of refugees with a few tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothes piled on their heads , carrying their sick children and their old . they the wet parts of with the sucking of mud , barefooted . tell the story faces , but they are silent , except for a child whimpering now and then . sores covered are sick . is many . others have cholera , and when they die by the roadside there is no one to bury them . ”
have intensified is currency and threats manipulation of protectionist measures charges . with the uk , which gave the world free trade in the 1840s , having now decided to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are putting national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . and now the spotlight of global france turns . the european integration kept it of the post-war multilateral system in the middle of the franco-german engine sputtering is at stake . leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a crumbling world order spell the end of the eu . may be le pen in early victory .
new york – when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my native sri lanka , i could n’t wait for my first sex education class . i as we were clueless about sex and sexuality , they were as curious . , and i in our early teens . we were simply handed a book , read a particular chapter told , and figure things out on our own left , instead of receiving reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality . the adverse consequences serious have similar experience often . , millions of young people around the world . following most powerful leader of iran 's the killing of targeted , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
we 've been in an un@@ controlled military escalation , an interest has now after all , iran and the . projects asked the coming will define that 12 months . , its commentators as in previous years . if this year 's selection of a theme of common is there , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already provided a wake-up call for firms and policymakers around the world . “ if revolution there is to be , let us rather undertake it than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , the impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . global reintegration has an economic powerhouse turned china . it is the world ’s largest exporter in volume terms , and is the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s presence is felt around the world , from mines in africa to apple stores in the united states . as we reflect on china ’s remarkable progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to consider how china continues to fall short in overcoming systemic obstacles to long-term success .
a significant slowdown chinese may already be unfolding . us president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but this is only a downward shove to an economy that was already slowing as it makes the transition from export - and investment-led growth to more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . given an ever-more centralized party-led political system the inherent contradiction and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , but long-term growth could be reduced . ; how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question . is not very attractive , either , unfortunately , avoiding the transition to consumer-led growth and continuing to promote real-estate investment exports the option . neither market space nor political tolerance to allow it to maintain its previous pace of export expansion is there , and china is already a dominant exporter global .
political systems of democratic more flexible can only be met by the arab world . the relationship of close between the arab world 's educational shortcomings and his lack of democracy underscores is the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , . requires an informed citizenry able to question its government , democracy . if to acquire the skills needed to perform the sort of jobs today 's global and competitive world demands is and women young . , a well-educated citizenry is essential . of inadequate educational opportunity leading to a lack of economic opportunity is a cycle . is instead of progress , what we see , alas .
the president has threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if it does what he enabled it to do . with kurds – most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council has remained typically silent , while the europeans have condemned everything and everyone involved . as foreign-policy disasters go , this the books of record is one . . but the seeds for this larger conflagration were sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . the conditions were a crisis ripe , any coherent policy absent .
but a helicopter-money program – a fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also be a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an abundance of caution about citizen and investor perception , confidence , and solid governance structures . and such an approach would cement the notion that central bank policy is “ the only game in town , ” relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility for pro-growth policies and the fiscal decisions they control . would be a significant increase in public infrastructure investment funded by government debt is stimulating demand for a and time-tested less risky route . it europe have underinvested in infrastructure and the states of united is so documented . . from a macroeconomic perspective , infrastructure investment is a “ twofer ” – it strengthens productivity and competitiveness in the long run and , where there is unused capacity , it boosts demand , output , and employment with significant multiplier effects in the short run .
with every year by subsidizing passenger fares is losing the government . , it to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding up the trains has little money . . they run out of money before plans running out , as a result . in the last 30 years , have completed 676 projects sanctioned by parliament only 317 , and it is difficult to imagine how the railways will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the remaining 359 projects . and if were n't enough of this , india 's leadership the railways present , see the challenges . seems n't . . in a country where rail passengers can not even expect a clean toilet , let alone an on-time arrival , prime minister narendra modi has spoken of introducing bullet trains – the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations .
under federalism – whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” – it is often assumed that state and local governments are pursuing the same goals . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and the right-leaning “ red ” states where many are located . there what can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level state governments . are many ways . , and . necessary for developing and implementing effective policies information and resources is often lack of for their part , cities . a number of organizations have now emerged to strengthen the policy-making capacity of city governments including michael bloomberg ’s government innovation program , fuse corps , results for america , social finance , third sector capital partners , and usafacts .
we who really for fomenting a political climate where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse is responsible . , look beyond these figures . need . we can to quarantine them , take practical steps . only we identify the sources of the odious virus now afflicting our democracies when . let ’s start with “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the uk and the us – not to mention his native australia – for the sake of profit and political influence . murdoch ’s newspapers and television networks might as well have patented the recipe for the deceitful , dog-whistle politics that powered trump ’s rise and the brexit vote .
